---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Building a Responsive Navigation Menu
---

## Goals

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:

- used component-based design principles to create a responsive Header for your site

- used semantic HTML tags to write clearer, more accessible, code

- used mobile-first, responsive design principles to style your Header component for different screen sizes

- written a `<script>` to allow your site visitor to open and close the navigation menu

## Using modern design principles

Astro was designed to help you to build projects using modern design principles, including **component-based composition** and **mobile-first responsiveness**. 

As a superset of HTML, Astro syntax also encourages you to build with **semantic HTML tags** that give your browser (and other developers!) key information about the purpose and content of the elements on your page. 

Sketching all these elements out first, in **pseudocode** can also be helpful to organize your thoughts and provide a roadmap. Let's see what it looks like to build with these ideas in mind!

## Header Component

1. Create a new Header component.

<details>
<summary>Give me more specific instructions!</summary>

Create a file named `Header.astro` in `src/components/`
</details>

2. Use semantic HTML elements to create the pattern of a `<nav></nav>` nested inside a `<header><header/>`.


<details>
<summary>Show me the code!</summary>

```astro
---
---
<header>
  <nav>
  </nav>
<header>
```
</details>


3. Import and add two components: a "coming soon" `<Hamburger />` component and your existing `<Navigation />` component inside the `<nav>`. 

Don't worry about the fact that you haven't built the Hamburger component yet. This is another example of writing **pseudocode**: code that simply reveals our intentions first, allowing us to add details later. So, don't bother to check your browser preview yet. It won't work!

<details>
<summary>Show me the code!</summary>

```astro
---
import Hamburger from '../components/Hamburger.astro';
import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
---
<header>
  <nav>
    <Hamburger />
    <Navigation />
  </nav>
<header>
```

</details>

## Hamburger Component

1. Create the missing `<Hamburger />` component.

<details>
<summary>Give me more specific instructions!</summary>

Create a file named `Hamburger.astro` in `src/components/`
</details>

2. Copy the following code into your component. This will represent our 3-line "hamburger" menu to open and close our navigation links on mobile. (We will add new CSS styles to our `.global.css` later.)

```astro
---
---
<div class="hamburger">
  <span class="line"></span>
  <span class="line"></span>
  <span class="line"></span>
</div>
```

## Navigation Component

1. Update `Header.astro` in preparation for using CSS styles to create a responsive, mobile header. Wrap the existing navigation links in a `<div> ` with the class `nav-links`.


<details>
<summary>Show me the code!</summary>

```astro
---
---
<div class="nav-links">
  <a href="/">Home</a>
  <a href="/about">About</a>
  <a href="/blog">Blog</a>
<div>
```

</details>


## CSS

1. Copy the CSS styles below into `global.css`. These styles:

- create lines for the hamburger menu
- style and position the navigation links for mobile
- include an `expanded` class that can be toggled to display or hide the links on mobile
- use a `@media` query to define different styles for larger screen sizes

Note that responsive, mobile-first desgin starts by defining what should happen on small screen sizes first. Then, styles are adjusted to accommodate larger screen sizes. This is because smaller screen sizes require simpler layouts. If you design the complicated case first, then you have to work backwards to try to make it simple again.

```css
/* nav styles */

.nav {
  align-items: center;
  padding-top: 20px;
}

.hamburger {
  padding-right: 20px;
  cursor: pointer;
}

.hamburger .line {
  display: block;
  width: 40px;
  height: 5px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
  background-color: var(--text-color);
}

.nav-links {
  width: 100%;
  top: 5rem;
  left: 48px;
  background-color: #ff9776;
  display: none;
  margin: 0;
}

.nav-links a {
  display: block;
  text-align: center;
  padding: 10px 0;
  text-decoration: none;
  font-size: 1.2rem;
  font-weight: bold;
  text-transform: uppercase;
}

.nav-links a:hover, a:focus {
  background-color: #ff9776;
}

.expanded {
  display: unset;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 636px) {
  .nav-links {
    margin-left: 5em;
    display: block;
    position: static;
    width: auto;
    background: none;
  }

  .nav-links a {
    display: inline-block;
    padding: 15px 20px;
  }

  .hamburger {
    display: none;
  }
}
```

2. Check your browser preview at `localhost:3000` and verify that your header is now styled!

Resize your window and look for different styles being applied at different screen widths. Your header is now **responsive** to screen size! `@media` queries allow the appearance to update dynamically, but the CSS classes do not change, meaning that it will always have one single appearance at each screen size.


## Script

Our header is not yet **interactive** because it can't respond to user input, like clicking on the hamburger menu to show or hide the navigation links. We need to add a `<script>` tag to provide client-side JavaScript to "listen" for this user event and then change an element's CSS styles accordingly.

1. Add a second `<script>` tag to `BaseLayout.astro`

```diff
  <script src='../scripts/theme-toggle.js'></script>
+ <script>
+   document.querySelector('.hamburger').addEventListener('click', () => {
+     document.querySelector('.nav-links').classList.toggle('expanded');
+   });
+ </script>
```

This script reacts to the `<Hamburger />` component being clicked, and toggles the CSS class of the`<Navigation />` component.

2. Check your browser preview again at various sizes, and verify that you have a working navigation menu that is both responsive to screen size and responds to user input.


## Before You Go

### Test your knowledge

### Checklist for moving on
