---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Build new Components
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
---

Now that you have the same HTML written in multiple pages of your Astro site, let's replace that duplicated content with a reusable Astro component!

<Goals>
  - created a new folder for components in your project
  - built an Astro component to generate your navigation links
  - replaced existing HTML in each page with a new, reusable navigation component
</Goals>

## Create a new `src/components/` folder

To hold `.astro` files that will generate HTML but that will not become new pages on your website, you will need a new folder in your project:`src/components/`. 


## Create a Navigation component

1. Create a new file: `src/components/Navigation.astro`.

2. Copy your links to navigate between pages from the top of any page and paste it into your new file, `Navigation.astro`:

    ```astro title="src/components/Navigation.astro" "---"
    ---
    ---
    <a href="/">Home</a>
    <a href="/about/">About</a>
    <a href="/blog/">Blog</a>
    ```
    :::tip
    If there is nothing in the frontmatter of your `.astro` file, you don't have to write the code fences. You can always add them back in when you need them.
    :::

### Import and use Navigation.astro

1. Go back to `index.astro` and import your new component, anywhere inside the code fence:

    ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
    ---
    import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
    ---
    ```

2. In your component template, replace the existing navigation HTML link elements with the new navigation component you just imported:

    ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" del={1-3} ins={4}
    <a href="/">Home</a>
    <a href="/about/">About</a>
    <a href="/blog/">Blog</a>
    <Navigation />
    ```

3. Check the preview in your browser and notice that it should look exactly the same... and that's what you want! 

Your site contains the same HTML as it did before. But now, those three lines of code are provided by your `<Navigation />` component. 

### Try it Yourself!
Import and use the `<Navigation />` component in the other two pages on your site (`about.astro` and `blog.astro`) using the same method.

Don't forget to
- add an import statement at the top of the component script, inside the code fence.

- replace the existing code with the navigation component.

:::note
When you restructure your code but do not change the way your page looks in the browser, you are **refactoring**. You will **refactor** several times in this unit as you replace parts of your page HTML with components. 

This allows you to get started quickly with any working code, often duplicated throughout your project. Then, you can improve your existing code's design incrementally without changing the outward appearance of your site.
:::

## Create a Footer Component

1. Create a new file at the location `src/components/Footer.astro`.

2. Copy the following code into your new file, `Footer.astro`.

    ```astro title="src/components/Footer.astro"
    ---
    const platform = "github"
    const username = "withastro"
    ---
    <p>Learn more about my projects on <a href={`https://www.${platform}.com/${username}`}>{platform}</a>!</p>
    ```

### Import and Use Footer.astro

1. Add the following import statement anywhere in the frontmatter in each of your three Astro pages (`index.astro`, `about.astro`, and `blog.astro`):

    ```astro title="src/components/Footer.astro" ins={2}
    ---
    import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
    ---
    ```

2. Add a new `<Footer />` component in your Astro template on each page, just before the closing `</body>` tag to display your footer at the bottom of the page. 

    ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" ins={1}
       <Footer />
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

3. In your browser preview, check that you can see your new footer text on each page.

### Try it yourself

Customize your footer to display multiple social networks (e.g. Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn) and include your username to link directly to your own profile.

## Code Check-In
If you've been following along with each step in the tutorial, your `index.astro` file should look like this:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
import '../styles/global.css';
const pageTitle = "Home Page"
---
<html lang = "en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <title>Astro</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <Navigation />
        <h1>{pageTitle}</h1>
        <Footer />
    </body>
</html>
```

## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with **reusable**, **`src/pages`**,**refactor** and **standard HTML elements**:

Astro components can use || **standard HTML elements** || and other Astro components in the same template, alongside each other. This means that you can decide when and where to || **refactor** || your code, creating || **reusable** || fragments of HTML defined in an Astro component. 

These components should live outside of || **`src/pages`** || since they are not meant to be pages on your website.

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="navigation">
- [ ] I can replace content that is duplicated on multiple pages by creating a single new component and including it on each page.
- [ ] I can add new content to each page by creating a new component, importing it and including it in the page template where I want it to appear.
</Checklist>

### Resources 

- [Astro Component Overview](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#component-structure)

- [Refactoring](https://refactoring.com/) <Badge>external</Badge>
