---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Send your first JavaScript to the browser
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
  import MultipleChoice from '~/components/tutorial/MultipleChoice.astro';
  import Option from '~/components/tutorial/Option.astro';
  import PreCheck from '~/components/tutorial/PreCheck.astro';
---
Since you need your hamburger menu to open and close the links, let's add client-side interactivity!

<PreCheck>

  - write a `<script>` to allow your site visitors to open and close the navigation menu
  - move your JavaScript to its `.js` file

</PreCheck>


## Adding Interactivity with JavaScript

Your header is not yet **interactive** because it can't respond to user input, like clicking on the hamburger menu to show or hide the navigation links. 

Adding a `<script>` tag provides client-side JavaScript to "listen" for a user event and then respond accordingly.

1. Add the following `<script>` tag to `index.astro`, just before the closing `</body>` tag.

    ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" ins={2-6}
      <Footer />
      <script>
        document.querySelector('.hamburger').addEventListener('click', () => {
          document.querySelector('.nav-links').classList.toggle('expanded');
        });
      </script>
    </body>
    ```

2. Check your browser preview again at various sizes, and verify that you have a working navigation menu that is both responsive to screen size and responds to user input on this page.

### Importing a `.js` file

Instead of writing your JavaScript directly on each page, you move the contents of your `<script>` tag into its own `.js` file in your project.


1. Create `src/scripts/menu.js` (you will have to create a new `/scripts/` folder) and move your JavaScript into it.

    ```js title="src/scripts/menu.js"
    document.querySelector('.hamburger').addEventListener('click', () => {
      document.querySelector('.nav-links').classList.toggle('expanded');
    });
    ```

2. Replace the contents of the `<script>` tag on `index.astro` with the following file import:

    ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" ins={7} del={3-5}
      <Footer />
      <script>
        document.querySelector('.hamburger').addEventListener('click', () => {
          document.querySelector('.nav-links').classList.toggle('expanded');
      });

      import "../scripts/menu.js";
      </script>
    </body>
    ```

3. Check your browser preview again at a smaller size and verify that the hamburger menu still opens and closes your navigation links. 

     ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro & src/pages/blog.astro" ins={2-4}
      <Footer />
      <script>
        import "../scripts/menu.js";
      </script>
    </body>
    ```

4. Add the same `<script>` with import to your other two pages, `about.astro` and `blog.astro` and verify that you have a responsive, interactive header on each page.


:::note[takeaway]
You had previously used some JavaScript to build parts of your site:

- mapping through a list of skills on the About page
- conditionally displaying HTML elements
- returning information from your Markdown files
- creating page routes dynamically

Those commands are all executed at build time to create static HTML for your site, and then the code is "thrown away." 

**The JavaScript in a `<script>` tag is sent to the browser**, and is available to run, based on user interactions like refreshing a page or toggling an input.
:::

## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with the following terms:  **code fences**, **build-time**, **written or imported**, **browser** 

 Astro uses JavaScript first at || **build-time** || to create your site (e.g. to build dynamic routes, to map over arrays of data to display lists, to fetch data and to define variables). Then, Astro can optionally send JavaScript to the || **browser** || (also known as client-side JavaScript) which allows users to interact with your website and change parts of your built site.

In Astro, JavaScript that is only meant to build your site is written between the || **code fences** || or in HTML templating. It is run on a server (e.g. Netlify), and then discarded once your site is published. JavaScript that is meant to control interactive elements on your site is || **written or imported** || between opening and closing `<script>` tags.

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="nav">
- [ ] I can add client-side interactivity on my site by writing JavaScript within a `<script>` tag.
- [ ] I can write JavaScript in a `.js` file elsewhere within my project `src`, and import it into a `<script>` tag.
</Checklist>

### Resources

[Client-side scripts in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#client-side-scripts)
