---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Astro Components
description: Building, styling and passing data between Astro components. 
setup: |
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import MultipleChoice from '~/components/tutorial/MultipleChoice.astro';
  import Option from '~/components/tutorial/Option.astro';
---
BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- created reusable Astro components for UI items on your website (e.g. Header, Footer)
- used standard HTML elements alongside Astro components in the same component template
- passed data from one Astro component to another passing `props` as a component attribute
- passed data from one Astro component to another using a `<slot />`
- created a layout template that can be used to render identical elements on multiple pages


Now that you have multiple `.astro` files generating pages on your website, let's explore **component-based design** in Astro to make and reuse smaller bits of HTML!

### Summary
The building blocks of an Astro site are **components**. Astro components are `.astro` files and they generate static HTML. An Astro component can generate the all the HTML needed for an entire web page, like your existing `index.astro`, `about.astro`, and `blog.astro`. Or, they can produce smaller units of HTML that can be included inside other Astro components.

**Component-based design** means building your web page as a collection of modular, often reusable, pieces. Astro components are meant to be building-blocks that can fit within, and alongside other comopnents. In fact, your existing Astro pages are just Astro components that happen to display an entire page's worth of HTML!

### Test your knowledge

Which of the following could be an Astro component?

<MultipleChoice>
  <Option>your website's navigation bar</Option>
  <Option>a feedback widget</Option>
  <Option>your About page</Option>
  <Option>an image</Option>
  <Option isCorrect>all of the above, because *any* valid HTML fragment can be generated by an Astro component!</Option>
</MultipleChoice>


### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="components">
- [ ] I am ready to explore component-based design in Astro!
</Checklist>


## Build new Components

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- created a new folder for components in your project
- built an Astro component to generate your navigation links
- replaced existing HTML in each page with a new, reusable navigation component

Now that you have the same HTML written in multiple pages of your Astro site, let's replace that duplicated content with a reusable Astro component!

### Create a new `/components/` folder

To hold `.astro` files that will generate HTML but that will not become new pages on your website, you will need a new folder in your project source outside of `/pages/`. 

1. Hover over the `src` folder in your project's file list.

2. Right-click or use the icons that appear to create a new folder inside `src`.

3. Name this folder `components` and check that it is now visible in your file tree at `src/components`.

### Create a Navigation component

1. Create a new file at the location `src/components/Navigation.astro`.

2. Copy the section of code you have already written in `index.astro` to navigate between your pages, and paste it into this new file, `Navigation.astro`

```astro
---
// src/components/Navigation.astro
---
<a href="/">Home</a>
<a href="/about/">About</a>
<a href="/blog/">Blog</a>
```

#### Import and use Navigation.astro

1. Go back to `index.astro` and add the following line of code to the component script, inside the code fence:

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
---
```

2. In your component template, replace the existing navigation HTML link elements with the new navigation component you just imported:

```diff
// src/pages/index.astro
- <a href="/">Home</a>
- <a href="/about/">About</a>
- <a href="/blog/">Blog</a>
+ <Navigation />
```
3. Check the preview in your browser and notice that it should look exactly the same... and that's what you want! 

Your site contains the same HTML as it did before. Now, however, those three lines of code are being generated by your `<Navigation />` component. 

#### Try it Yourself!
Import and use the `<Navigation />` component in the other two pages `about.astro` and `blog.astro` on your site using the same method.

Don't forget to
- import statement at the top of the component script, inside the code fence!

- replace the existing code with the navigation component!

:::note
When you restructure your code but do not change its external behavior, you are **refactoring**. You will **refactor** several times in this unit as you replace parts of your page HTML with components. 

This allows you to get started quickly with any working code, often duplicated throughout your project. Then, you can improve your existing code's design incrementally without changing the outward appearance of your site.
:::

### Create a Footer Component

1. Create a new file at the location `src/components/Footer.astro`.

2. Copy the following code you into your new file, `Footer.astro`.
```astro
---
// src/components/Footer.astro
const social = "Twitter"
---
<p>Learn more about my projects on <a href=`https://www.${social}.com`>{social}</a>!</p>
```

#### Import and Use Footer.astro

1. Write the following import statement in each of your three Astro pages (`index.astro`, `about.astro`, and `blog.astro`):

```astro
---
//src/components/Footer.astro
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
---
```
2. Add a new `<Footer />` component in your Astro template on each page, just before the closing `</body>` tag to display your footer at the bottom of the page. 

```diff
// src/pages/index.astro

+   <Footer />
  </body>
</html>
```

3. In your browser preview, check that you can see your new footer text on each page.

#### Try it yourself!

Customize your footer output to use a different social network (e.g. Instagram, GitHub, LinkedIn) and/or your username to link directly to your own profile!

### Code Check-In
If you've been following along with each step in the tutorial, your `index.astro` file should look like this:

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
import '../styles/global.css';
const title = "Home Page"
---
<html lang = "en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <title>Astro</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <Navigation />
        <h1>{title}</h1>
        <Footer />
    </body>
</html>
```

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with **reusable**, **`src/pages`**,**refactor** and **standard HTML elements**:

Astro components can use || **standard HTML elements** || and other Astro components in the same template, alongside each other. This means that you can decide when and where to || *refactor** || your code, creating || **reusable** || fragments of HTML defined in an Astro component. These components should live outside of || **`src/pages`** || if they are not meant to be pages on your website.

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="navigation">
- [ ] I can replace content that is duplicated on multiple pages by creating a single new component and including it on each page.
- [ ] I can add new content to each page by creating a new component, importing it and including it in the page template where I want it to appear.
</Checklist>

### Resources 

[Astro Component Overview](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#component-overview)


[Refactoring](https://refactoring.com/) <Badge>external</Badge>


## Passing props (values) to components

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- added a new component that receives properties (props) passed by attribute
- rendered this new component multiple times, each time receiving different props
- styled this component


Now that you have used Astro components on a page, let's use a component within another component!

### Create a Social Media component

1. Create a new file at the location `src/components/Social.astro`.

2. Copy the following code into your new file, `Social.astro`.
```astro
---
// src/components/Social.astro

const {platform, username} = Astro.props
---
<span><a href=`https://www.${platform}.com/${username}`>{platform}</a></span>
```

#### Import and use `Social.astro` in your Footer

1. Change the code in `src/components/Footer.astro` to import, then render this new component three times, passing different **component attributes** as props each time:

```astro
---
// src/components/Footer.astro

import Social from './Social.astro'
---
<Social platform="twitter" username="astrodotbuild" />
<Social platform="github" username="withastro" />
<Social platform="youtube" username="astrodotbuild" />
```
4. Check each page in your browser preview, and you should see your new footer rendering links to these three platforms.

### Analyze the pattern

1. What line of code do you need to write in an Astro component to **receive values as props**?

|| `const { title, author, description } = Astro.props` written inside an Astro component's script will give that component access to `title`, `author` and `description` passed from wherever that component was used.||

2. How do you use and **send values as props** to an Astro component?

|| When you use an Astro component in your template, you can send values as props by writing a **component attribute** inside the component. For example, `<ProductList category="shoes" />` ||


### Style your components

1. Add the following `<style>` tag to `src/components/social`:

```astro
---
// src/components/social.astro
---
<style>
  .social-platform {
    margin: 0.4em;
    padding: 1em;
    background-color: #ff9776;
    border-radius: 3px;
  }
  a {
    color: #00539F;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
</style>
```
2. Add the following HTML element with a corresponding `<style>` tag to `src/components/footer.astro` to separate your footer from the rest of the page content. 

```diff
---
// src/components/footer.astro

import Social from './Social.astro'
---
+<style>
+   .spacer {
+       height: 2em;
+   }
+</style>

+<div class="spacer"></div>
<Social platform="twitter" username="astrodotbuild" />
<Social platform="github" username="withastro" />
<Social platform="youtube" username="astrodotbuild" />
```
3. Check your browser preview again and confirm that each page shows an updated footer.

### Analyze the Pattern

1. How is your `<Footer />` component similar to your `<Navigation />` component? How is it different?

|| Both are Astro components, and both are written in the component template to provide some HTML that is defined elsewhere. The `<Footer />` component is itself further composed of more components. This demonstrates the power of **component-based design** which allows you to compose HTML in independent, reusable pieces. This can make it easier to make changes or troubleshoot as you work, by helping you know more precisely where to look to find your specific code. ||

2. Your website's footer and navigation each display three links. List three differences between these two sets of links. Think about things like _where the link text comes from_, _the appearance of the links on the page_ and _how the link's URL is determined_.

|| The website footer renders link text that is generated in another component; the navigation component renders link text that are typed in directly. ||

|| The website footer links are styled by a `<style>` tag in the social component; the navigation component links only have default and global styling applied. ||

|| The website footer links are generated dynamically using props passed as component attributes to another component; the navigation component renders links that are typed in directly. ||

3. Describe how Astro uses **component-based design** to render a page.

|| Astro can render components within other components, allowing you to design in small, isolated pieces. ||

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="props">
- [ ] I can create new `.astro` components in `src/components/`
- [ ] I can import and render components inside other components.
- [ ] I can send data (pass props) as component attributes to an Astro component so that it can dynamically generate HTML.
</Checklist>

### Resources

[Component Props in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#component-props)


## Build a page layout

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- extracted common page elements into a layout component
- used an Astro `<slot />` element to send page contents to the layout
- passed page data as props to its layout using a component attribute


Now that you have some Astro components repeatedly rendered on every page, let's refactor again to create a single page layout!

### Create a Layout Component

1. Create a new file at the location `src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro`. (You will need to create a new `layouts` folder first.)

2. Copy the **entire contents** of `index.astro` into your new file, `BaseLayout.astro`.

```astro
---
// src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro

import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
import '../styles/global.css';
const title = "Home Page"
---
<html lang = "en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <title>Astro</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <Navigation />
        <h1>{title}</h1>
        <Footer />
    </body>
</html>
```

### Replace page content with a layout

Notice that **all** of those HTML elements are things you want to appear on every page, so you can remove most of the content from `index.astro` and still show the same page to the reader via only the `<Layout />` component. 

1. Replace the code at `src/pages/index.astro` with the following:

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

import BaseLayout from '../layouts/BaseLayout.astro'
---
<BaseLayout></BaseLayout>
```

2. Check your browser preview and verify that your index page looks the same as it did before.

### Using a `<slot />` to inject content

1. Add the following subtitle to your page at `src/pages/index.astro`.

 ```diff
---
// src/pages/index.astro

import BaseLayout from '../layouts/BaseLayout.astro'
---
<BaseLayout>
+ <h2>My awesome blog subtitle</h2>
</BaseLayout>
```

2. Check the browser preview again to notice what did (or, spoiler alert: did _not_!) change.
    
3. Add a `<slot />` element to `src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro` just above the footer component, then check the browser preview of your Home page and notice what really _did_ change this time!

```diff
---
//src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro

import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
import '../styles/global.css';
const title = "Home Page"
---
<html lang = "en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <title>Astro</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <Navigation />
        <h1>{title}</h1>
+       <slot />        
        <Footer />
    </body>
</html>
```

#### Analyze the pattern

1. What is the purpose of a `<slot />`?

|| A `<slot />` allows you to inject (or "slot in") **child content** that is written between opening and closing `<Layout></Layout>` tags ||

2. You can use a `<slot />` in any Astro component to pass data to be rendered, but why is this a particularly useful feature for a layout?

|| This is useful for a layout component in particular because you often want a page layout to define most elements on your page _except_ for some specific page content, that is different on every page. A `<slot />` allows us to create one single page layout, and have different inner content on each page.  ||

### Pass page-specific values as props

1. Pass the page title to your layout component from `index.astro` using a component attribute: 
```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

import BaseLayout from '../layouts/BaseLayout.astro'
---
<BaseLayout title="Home Page">
  <h2>My awesome blog subtitle</h2>
</BaseLayout>
```
 2. Change the script of your `BaseLayout.astro` layout component to receive a page title via `Astro.props` instead of defining it as a constant.
 ```diff
---
// src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro

import Navigation from '../components/Navigation.astro';
import Footer from '../components/Footer.astro';
import '../styles/global.css';
- const title = "Home Page"
+ const { title } = Astro.props
---
```
 3. Check your browser preview to verify that your page title has not changed. It has the same value, but is now being rendered dynamically, and each individual page can specify its own title to the layout.

 #### Analyze the Pattern

 1. When would you choose to add a component attribute layout instead of just using a `<slot />`?

 || Add a component attribute to make a value available for use in JavaScript or JSX-like expressions. These values can be used individually, in specific or multiple places in an Astro component. Content rendered by a `<slot />` is injected as a whole, into one specific location. Its contents are not available individually. ||

 2. What are the two steps required so that your layout component receives a value as props?

 || A layout component must be "passed props" where the component is written, using a component attribute. The layout must also have a line of code written in its own script to receive these values as `Astro.props`.||
 
### Try it Yourself

**Refactor** your other pages (`blog.astro` and `about.astro`) so that they use your new `<BaseLayout>` component to render the common page elements!

Don't forget:

- to pass a page title as props via a component attribute!

- to only keep in your component template the elements that are page-specific!

- to let the layout be responsible for the HTML rendering for any common elements!

### Test your knowledge

1. An Astro component (`.astro` file) can function as a:

    <MultipleChoice>
      <Option>page</Option>
      <Option>UI component</Option>
      <Option>layout</Option>
      <Option>an image</Option>
      <Option isCorrect>all of the above, because Astro components are so functional! 🏗️</Option>
    </MultipleChoice>

2. To display a page title on the page, you can:

    <MultipleChoice>
      <Option>
        use a standard HTML element on the page with static text (e.g `<h1>Home Page</h1>`)
      </Option>
      <Option>
        use a standard HTML element on the page referring to a variable defined in your component script (e.g. `<h1>{title}</h1>`)
      </Option>
      <Option>
        use a layout component on the page, passing the title as a component attribute (e.g. `<BaseLayout title="Home Page" />` or `<BaseLayout title={title} />`)
      </Option>
      <Option isCorrect>
        all of the above, because Astro lets you use plain HTML or supercharge it with some script and components! 💪
      </Option>
    </MultipleChoice>

3. Information can be passed from one component to another by:

    <MultipleChoice>
      <Option>
        importing a UI component and rendering it in the template of another component
      </Option>
      <Option>
        passing props to a component where it is rendered via a component attribute
      </Option>
      <Option>
        sending HTML content to be rendered inside another component using a `<slot />` placeholder
      </Option>
      <Option isCorrect>
        all of the above, because Astro was built to take advantage of component-based design! 🧩
      </Option>
    </MultipleChoice>


### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="layout">
- [ ] I can create an Astro component with a `<slot />` that serves as a page layout.
- [ ] I can send page-specific properties to a layout using a component attribute.
- [ ] I can render page content inside a layout by "wrapping" my entire page HTML template in opening and closing layout component tags.
</Checklist>

### Resources

[Astro layout components](/en/core-concepts/layouts/)

[Astro `<slot />`](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#slots)
