---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Create a Markdown Blog Post
---

## Goals

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- created Markdown (`.md`) files in a new `/posts/` folder
- added necessary YAML frontmatter to each Markdown file
- created new pages on your website by writing in Markdown


Now that you have built pages using `.astro` files, let's make some blog posts using `.md` files!

## Create your first Markdown (`.md`) file

1. Create a new directory at `src/pages/posts/`. 
2. Add a new (empty) file `post-1.md` inside your new `/posts/` folder.
3. Check your browser preview at the following address: `localhost:3000/posts/post-1`
:::note
If you are working in a cloud editor, then you can preview this page by adding `/posts/post-1` to the end of your existing preview URL
:::
4. Change the browser preview URL and view `localhost:3000/posts/post-2`. (This is a page you have not yet created.) Note the different output when previewing an "empty" page, and one that doesn't exist! This will help you troubleshoot in the future.

## Write Markdown content

1. Copy or type the following code into `post-1.md`
```markdown
---
title: 'My First Blog Post'
pubDate: 2022-07-01
description: 'This is the first post of my new Astro blog.'
---
# My First Blog Post

Welcome to my new blog about learning Astro! Here, I will share my learning journey as I build a new website.

## Installing Astro

First, I created a new Astro project and set up my online accounts.

## Making Pages

I then learned how to make pages by creating new `.astro` files and placing them in the `src/pages/` folder.

## Making Blog Posts

This is my first blog post! I now have Astro pages and Markdown posts!
```
2. Check your browser preview again at `localhost:3000/posts/post-1` (or by adding `/posts/post-1` to the end of the current preview URL in your browser). You should have a brand new page!

## Before You Go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with **Markdown (`.md`)**, **`src/pages/**, **HTML tags**, and **no content**:

I can put files in the || **`src/pages/`**|| directory, and in its sub-folders, to create pages on my website. Astro regognizes and builds a page for my site if a file exists here, even if it has || **no content** || to display. 

To create content for pages built with `.astro` files, I include standard HTML elements. But, when I create pages using || **Markdown (`.md`)** || files, I can write using a simplified syntax that does not require || **HTML tags** ||.   


### Checklist for moving on
[ ] I can create a new folder within `src/pages/` for my blog posts

[ ] I can create a new Markdown (`.md`) blog post file in this new folder

[ ] I understand that Markdown is another language that, like Astro, produces HTML in my browser.

[ ] I can read more about Markdown on my own if I need to!
