src/content/docs/es/reference/error-reference.mdx, before:

---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated from 'scripts/error-docgen.mjs'
# Do not make edits to it directly, they will be overwritten.
# Instead, change this file: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
# Translators, please remove this note and the <DontEditWarning/> component.

title: Referencia de errores
i18nReady: true
githubURL: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
---

La siguiente referencia es una lista completa de los errores que puedes encontrar al usar Astro. Para obtener asistencia adicional, incluyendo las preguntas frequentes, consulta nuestra [Guía de solución de problemas](/es/guides/troubleshooting/).

## Errores de Astro
- [**UnknownCompilerError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-compiler-error/)<br/>Unknown compiler error.
- [**StaticRedirectNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/static-redirect-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.redirect` is not available in static mode.
- [**ClientAddressNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/client-address-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.clientAddress` is not available in current adapter.
- [**StaticClientAddressNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/static-client-address-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.clientAddress` is not available in static mode.
- [**NoMatchingStaticPathFound**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-static-path-found/)<br/>No static path found for requested path.
- [**OnlyResponseCanBeReturned**](/es/reference/errors/only-response-can-be-returned/)<br/>Invalid type returned by Astro page.
- [**MissingMediaQueryDirective**](/es/reference/errors/missing-media-query-directive/)<br/>Missing value for `client:media` directive.
- [**NoMatchingRenderer**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-renderer/)<br/>No matching renderer found.
- [**NoClientEntrypoint**](/es/reference/errors/no-client-entrypoint/)<br/>No client entrypoint specified in renderer.
- [**NoClientOnlyHint**](/es/reference/errors/no-client-only-hint/)<br/>Missing hint on `client:only` directive.
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathParam**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-path-param/)<br/>Invalid value returned by a `getStaticPaths` path.
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathsEntry**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-paths-entry/)<br/>Invalid entry inside getStaticPath's return value
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathsReturn**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-paths-return/)<br/>Invalid value returned by getStaticPaths.
- [**GetStaticPathsRemovedRSSHelper**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-removed-rsshelper/)<br/>getStaticPaths RSS helper is not available anymore.
- [**GetStaticPathsExpectedParams**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-expected-params/)<br/>Missing params property on `getStaticPaths` route.
- [**GetStaticPathsInvalidRouteParam**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-invalid-route-param/)<br/>Invalid value for `getStaticPaths` route parameter.
- [**GetStaticPathsRequired**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-required/)<br/>`getStaticPaths()` function required for dynamic routes.
- [**ReservedSlotName**](/es/reference/errors/reserved-slot-name/)<br/>Invalid slot name.
- [**NoAdapterInstalled**](/es/reference/errors/no-adapter-installed/)<br/>Cannot use Server-side Rendering without an adapter.
- [**NoMatchingImport**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-import/)<br/>No import found for component.
- [**InvalidPrerenderExport**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-prerender-export/)<br/>Invalid prerender export.
- [**InvalidComponentArgs**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-component-args/)<br/>Invalid component arguments.
- [**PageNumberParamNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/page-number-param-not-found/)<br/>Page number param not found.
- [**ImageMissingAlt**](/es/reference/errors/image-missing-alt/)<br/>Missing alt property.
- [**InvalidImageService**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-image-service/)<br/>Error while loading image service.
- [**MissingImageDimension**](/es/reference/errors/missing-image-dimension/)<br/>Missing image dimensions
- [**UnsupportedImageFormat**](/es/reference/errors/unsupported-image-format/)<br/>Unsupported image format
- [**PrerenderDynamicEndpointPathCollide**](/es/reference/errors/prerender-dynamic-endpoint-path-collide/)<br/>Prerendered dynamic endpoint has path collision.
- [**ExpectedImage**](/es/reference/errors/expected-image/)<br/>Expected src to be an image.
- [**ExpectedImageOptions**](/es/reference/errors/expected-image-options/)<br/>Expected image options.
- [**MarkdownImageNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/markdown-image-not-found/)<br/>Image not found.
- [**ResponseSentError**](/es/reference/errors/response-sent-error/)<br/>Unable to set response.
- [**MiddlewareNoDataOrNextCalled**](/es/reference/errors/middleware-no-data-or-next-called/)<br/>The middleware didn't return a response or call `next`.
- [**MiddlewareNotAResponse**](/es/reference/errors/middleware-not-aresponse/)<br/>The middleware returned something that is not a `Response` object.
- [**LocalImageUsedWrongly**](/es/reference/errors/local-image-used-wrongly/)<br/>Local images must be imported.
- [**LocalsNotAnObject**](/es/reference/errors/locals-not-an-object/)<br/>Value assigned to `locals` is not accepted.
- [**AstroGlobUsedOutside**](/es/reference/errors/astro-glob-used-outside/)<br/>Astro.glob() used outside of an Astro file.
- [**AstroGlobNoMatch**](/es/reference/errors/astro-glob-no-match/)<br/>Astro.glob() did not match any files.
- [**RedirectWithNoLocation**](/es/reference/errors/redirect-with-no-location/)<br/>A redirect must be given a location with the `Location` header.
- [**InvalidDynamicRoute**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-dynamic-route/)<br/>Invalid dynamic route.
- [**MissingSharp**](/es/reference/errors/missing-sharp/)<br/>Could not find Sharp.
- [**UnknownViteError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-vite-error/)<br/>Unknown Vite Error.
- [**FailedToLoadModuleSSR**](/es/reference/errors/failed-to-load-module-ssr/)<br/>Could not import file.
- [**InvalidGlob**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-glob/)<br/>Invalid glob pattern.
- [**FailedToFindPageMapSSR**](/es/reference/errors/failed-to-find-page-map-ssr/)<br/>Astro couldn't find the correct page to render

## Errores de CSS

- [**UnknownCSSError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-csserror/)<br/>Unknown CSS Error.
- [**CSSSyntaxError**](/es/reference/errors/csssyntax-error/)<br/>CSS Syntax Error.

## Errores de Markdown

- [**UnknownMarkdownError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-markdown-error/)<br/>Unknown Markdown Error.
- [**MarkdownFrontmatterParseError**](/es/reference/errors/markdown-frontmatter-parse-error/)<br/>Failed to parse Markdown frontmatter.
- [**InvalidFrontmatterInjectionError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-frontmatter-injection-error/)<br/>Invalid frontmatter injection.
- [**MdxIntegrationMissingError**](/es/reference/errors/mdx-integration-missing-error/)<br/>MDX integration missing.
- [**UnknownConfigError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-config-error/)<br/>Unknown configuration error.
- [**ConfigNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/config-not-found/)<br/>Specified configuration file not found.
- [**ConfigLegacyKey**](/es/reference/errors/config-legacy-key/)<br/>Legacy configuration detected.

## Errores de CLI

- [**UnknownCLIError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-clierror/)<br/>Unknown CLI Error.
- [**GenerateContentTypesError**](/es/reference/errors/generate-content-types-error/)<br/>Failed to generate content types.

## Errores de Colección de Contenido

- [**UnknownContentCollectionError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-content-collection-error/)<br/>Unknown Content Collection Error.
- [**InvalidContentEntryFrontmatterError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-content-entry-frontmatter-error/)<br/>Content entry frontmatter does not match schema.
- [**InvalidContentEntrySlugError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-content-entry-slug-error/)<br/>Invalid content entry slug.
- [**ContentSchemaContainsSlugError**](/es/reference/errors/content-schema-contains-slug-error/)<br/>Content Schema should not contain `slug`.
- [**CollectionDoesNotExistError**](/es/reference/errors/collection-does-not-exist-error/)<br/>Collection does not exist
- [**MixedContentDataCollectionError**](/es/reference/errors/mixed-content-data-collection-error/)<br/>Content and data cannot be in same collection.
- [**ContentCollectionTypeMismatchError**](/es/reference/errors/content-collection-type-mismatch-error/)<br/>Collection contains entries of a different type.
- [**DataCollectionEntryParseError**](/es/reference/errors/data-collection-entry-parse-error/)<br/>Data collection entry failed to parse.
- [**DuplicateContentEntrySlugError**](/es/reference/errors/duplicate-content-entry-slug-error/)<br/>Duplicate content entry slug.
- [**UnsupportedConfigTransformError**](/es/reference/errors/unsupported-config-transform-error/)<br/>Unsupported transform in content config.

Commit message:

i18n(es): Update error-reference.mdx & markdown-image-not-found.mdx (#4792)
Co-authored-by: Yan Thomas <61414485+Yan-Thomas@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/es/reference/error-reference.mdx, after:

---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated from 'scripts/error-docgen.mjs'
# Do not make edits to it directly, they will be overwritten.
# Instead, change this file: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
# Translators, please remove this note and the <DontEditWarning/> component.

title: Referencia de errores
i18nReady: true
githubURL: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
---

La siguiente referencia es una lista completa de los errores que puedes encontrar al usar Astro. Para obtener asistencia adicional, incluyendo las preguntas frequentes, consulta nuestra [Guía de solución de problemas](/es/guides/troubleshooting/).

## Errores de Astro
- [**UnknownCompilerError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-compiler-error/)<br/>Unknown compiler error.
- [**StaticRedirectNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/static-redirect-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.redirect` is not available in static mode.
- [**ClientAddressNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/client-address-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.clientAddress` is not available in current adapter.
- [**StaticClientAddressNotAvailable**](/es/reference/errors/static-client-address-not-available/)<br/>`Astro.clientAddress` is not available in static mode.
- [**NoMatchingStaticPathFound**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-static-path-found/)<br/>No static path found for requested path.
- [**OnlyResponseCanBeReturned**](/es/reference/errors/only-response-can-be-returned/)<br/>Invalid type returned by Astro page.
- [**MissingMediaQueryDirective**](/es/reference/errors/missing-media-query-directive/)<br/>Missing value for `client:media` directive.
- [**NoMatchingRenderer**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-renderer/)<br/>No matching renderer found.
- [**NoClientEntrypoint**](/es/reference/errors/no-client-entrypoint/)<br/>No client entrypoint specified in renderer.
- [**NoClientOnlyHint**](/es/reference/errors/no-client-only-hint/)<br/>Missing hint on `client:only` directive.
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathParam**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-path-param/)<br/>Invalid value returned by a `getStaticPaths` path.
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathsEntry**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-paths-entry/)<br/>Invalid entry inside getStaticPath's return value
- [**InvalidGetStaticPathsReturn**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-get-static-paths-return/)<br/>Invalid value returned by getStaticPaths.
- [**GetStaticPathsRemovedRSSHelper**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-removed-rsshelper/)<br/>getStaticPaths RSS helper is not available anymore.
- [**GetStaticPathsExpectedParams**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-expected-params/)<br/>Missing params property on `getStaticPaths` route.
- [**GetStaticPathsInvalidRouteParam**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-invalid-route-param/)<br/>Invalid value for `getStaticPaths` route parameter.
- [**GetStaticPathsRequired**](/es/reference/errors/get-static-paths-required/)<br/>`getStaticPaths()` function required for dynamic routes.
- [**ReservedSlotName**](/es/reference/errors/reserved-slot-name/)<br/>Invalid slot name.
- [**NoAdapterInstalled**](/es/reference/errors/no-adapter-installed/)<br/>Cannot use Server-side Rendering without an adapter.
- [**NoMatchingImport**](/es/reference/errors/no-matching-import/)<br/>No import found for component.
- [**InvalidPrerenderExport**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-prerender-export/)<br/>Invalid prerender export.
- [**InvalidComponentArgs**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-component-args/)<br/>Invalid component arguments.
- [**PageNumberParamNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/page-number-param-not-found/)<br/>Page number param not found.
- [**ImageMissingAlt**](/es/reference/errors/image-missing-alt/)<br/>Missing alt property.
- [**InvalidImageService**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-image-service/)<br/>Error while loading image service.
- [**MissingImageDimension**](/es/reference/errors/missing-image-dimension/)<br/>Missing image dimensions
- [**UnsupportedImageFormat**](/es/reference/errors/unsupported-image-format/)<br/>Unsupported image format
- [**PrerenderDynamicEndpointPathCollide**](/es/reference/errors/prerender-dynamic-endpoint-path-collide/)<br/>Prerendered dynamic endpoint has path collision.
- [**ExpectedImage**](/es/reference/errors/expected-image/)<br/>Expected src to be an image.
- [**ExpectedImageOptions**](/es/reference/errors/expected-image-options/)<br/>Expected image options.
- [**ImageNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/image-not-found/)<br/>Image not found.
- [**NoImageMetadata**](/es/reference/errors/no-image-metadata/)<br/>Could not process image metadata.
- [**MarkdownImageNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/markdown-image-not-found/)<br/>Image not found.
- [**ResponseSentError**](/es/reference/errors/response-sent-error/)<br/>Unable to set response.
- [**MiddlewareNoDataOrNextCalled**](/es/reference/errors/middleware-no-data-or-next-called/)<br/>The middleware didn't return a response or call `next`.
- [**MiddlewareNotAResponse**](/es/reference/errors/middleware-not-aresponse/)<br/>The middleware returned something that is not a `Response` object.
- [**LocalImageUsedWrongly**](/es/reference/errors/local-image-used-wrongly/)<br/>Local images must be imported.
- [**LocalsNotAnObject**](/es/reference/errors/locals-not-an-object/)<br/>Value assigned to `locals` is not accepted.
- [**AstroGlobUsedOutside**](/es/reference/errors/astro-glob-used-outside/)<br/>Astro.glob() used outside of an Astro file.
- [**AstroGlobNoMatch**](/es/reference/errors/astro-glob-no-match/)<br/>Astro.glob() did not match any files.
- [**RedirectWithNoLocation**](/es/reference/errors/redirect-with-no-location/)<br/>A redirect must be given a location with the `Location` header.
- [**InvalidDynamicRoute**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-dynamic-route/)<br/>Invalid dynamic route.
- [**MissingSharp**](/es/reference/errors/missing-sharp/)<br/>Could not find Sharp.
- [**UnknownViteError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-vite-error/)<br/>Unknown Vite Error.
- [**FailedToLoadModuleSSR**](/es/reference/errors/failed-to-load-module-ssr/)<br/>Could not import file.
- [**InvalidGlob**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-glob/)<br/>Invalid glob pattern.
- [**FailedToFindPageMapSSR**](/es/reference/errors/failed-to-find-page-map-ssr/)<br/>Astro couldn't find the correct page to render

## Errores de CSS

- [**UnknownCSSError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-csserror/)<br/>Unknown CSS Error.
- [**CSSSyntaxError**](/es/reference/errors/csssyntax-error/)<br/>CSS Syntax Error.

## Errores de Markdown

- [**UnknownMarkdownError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-markdown-error/)<br/>Unknown Markdown Error.
- [**MarkdownFrontmatterParseError**](/es/reference/errors/markdown-frontmatter-parse-error/)<br/>Failed to parse Markdown frontmatter.
- [**InvalidFrontmatterInjectionError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-frontmatter-injection-error/)<br/>Invalid frontmatter injection.
- [**MdxIntegrationMissingError**](/es/reference/errors/mdx-integration-missing-error/)<br/>MDX integration missing.
- [**UnknownConfigError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-config-error/)<br/>Unknown configuration error.
- [**ConfigNotFound**](/es/reference/errors/config-not-found/)<br/>Specified configuration file not found.
- [**ConfigLegacyKey**](/es/reference/errors/config-legacy-key/)<br/>Legacy configuration detected.

## Errores de CLI

- [**UnknownCLIError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-clierror/)<br/>Unknown CLI Error.
- [**GenerateContentTypesError**](/es/reference/errors/generate-content-types-error/)<br/>Failed to generate content types.

## Errores de Colección de Contenido

- [**UnknownContentCollectionError**](/es/reference/errors/unknown-content-collection-error/)<br/>Unknown Content Collection Error.
- [**InvalidContentEntryFrontmatterError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-content-entry-frontmatter-error/)<br/>Content entry frontmatter does not match schema.
- [**InvalidContentEntrySlugError**](/es/reference/errors/invalid-content-entry-slug-error/)<br/>Invalid content entry slug.
- [**ContentSchemaContainsSlugError**](/es/reference/errors/content-schema-contains-slug-error/)<br/>Content Schema should not contain `slug`.
- [**CollectionDoesNotExistError**](/es/reference/errors/collection-does-not-exist-error/)<br/>Collection does not exist
- [**MixedContentDataCollectionError**](/es/reference/errors/mixed-content-data-collection-error/)<br/>Content and data cannot be in same collection.
- [**ContentCollectionTypeMismatchError**](/es/reference/errors/content-collection-type-mismatch-error/)<br/>Collection contains entries of a different type.
- [**DataCollectionEntryParseError**](/es/reference/errors/data-collection-entry-parse-error/)<br/>Data collection entry failed to parse.
- [**DuplicateContentEntrySlugError**](/es/reference/errors/duplicate-content-entry-slug-error/)<br/>Duplicate content entry slug.
- [**UnsupportedConfigTransformError**](/es/reference/errors/unsupported-config-transform-error/)<br/>Unsupported transform in content config.
