src/content/docs/en/tutorial/6-islands/3.mdx, before:

---
type: tutorial
title: Congratulations!
description: >-
  Tutorial: Build your first Astro blog —

  Check out the final version of your project and find out what’s next with
  Astro!
i18nReady: true
---
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
import Box from '~/components/tutorial/Box.astro';
import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
import CompletionConfetti from '~/components/tutorial/CompletionConfetti.astro';
import PreCheck from '~/components/tutorial/PreCheck.astro';
import Button from '~/components/Button.astro';


There's one more edit to make...

```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" del={5} ins={6}
---
import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
const pageTitle = "About Me";
const happy = true;
const finished = false;
const finished = true;
const goal = 3;
const identity = {
  firstName: "Sarah",
  country: "Canada",
  occupation: "Technical Writer",
  hobbies: ["photography", "birdwatching", "baseball"],
};
const skills = ["HTML", "CSS", "JavaScript", "React", "Astro", "Writing Docs"];
const skillColor = "navy";
const fontWeight = "bold";
const textCase = "uppercase";
---
```

We hope you learned a little about the basics of Astro, and had fun along the way!

You can find the code for the project in this tutorial on [GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete) or
[StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete?file=src/pages/index.astro).

Check out our docs for guides and reference material, and visit our Discord to ask questions, get help or just hang out!

Welcome to the universe, astronaut. 👩🏼‍🚀👨🏿‍🚀🧑‍🚀👩🏾‍🚀

<Box icon="check-list">

## Checklist

<Checklist>
- [ ] I can't wait to start my next Astro project! 🚀
</Checklist>
</Box>

## Next Steps

Continue with our [guide to migrate this project to content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/#migrating-from-file-based-routing)

[Start a new Astro project](/en/getting-started/)

[Join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat)

<CompletionConfetti />

## Share your achievement!

Congratulations on completing the Astro blog tutorial! Share your achievement with the world and let everyone know you're an Astronaut now!

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; gap: 0.5rem;">
  <Button href='https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Just%20finished%20learning%20how%20to%20build%20my%20first%20Astro%20blog!%20Check%20it%20out%20at%20https://docs.astro.build/%0Avia%20%40astrodotbuild'>Share on Twitter</Button>
  <Button href='https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https://docs.astro.build/&title=Just%20finished%20learning%20how%20to%20build%20my%20first%20Astro%20blog!'>Share on Reddit</Button>
</div>

Commit message:

[tutorial] new tutorial extensions (#4876)
Co-authored-by: Matteo Manfredi <20746019+itsmatteomanf@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Elian ☕️ <15145918+ElianCodes@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sergio A. Arevalo Soria <7903076+sasoria@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Favour Okoh <87978245+Favourz1@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jon Ellwood <62469422+jonellwood@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Darkid <60326315+DarkidOP@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Christian Decker <50999401+cmdecker95@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Leo Wilkin <64415791+leowilkin@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Roger Stringer <21484+freekrai@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Chris Swithinbank <357379+delucis@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: HiDeoo <494699+HiDeoo@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Genteure <11240579+Genteure@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Voxel <20650404+VoxelMC@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Bogdan Covrig <22895284+bogdaaamn@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Yan Thomas <61414485+Yan-Thomas@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Reuben Tier <64310361+TheOtterlord@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kevin Zuniga Cuellar <46791833+kevinzunigacuellar@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/en/tutorial/6-islands/3.mdx, after:

---
type: tutorial
title: Congratulations!
description: >-
  Tutorial: Build your first Astro blog —

  Check out the final version of your project and find out what’s next with
  Astro!
i18nReady: true
---
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
import Box from '~/components/tutorial/Box.astro';
import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
import CompletionConfetti from '~/components/tutorial/CompletionConfetti.astro';
import PreCheck from '~/components/tutorial/PreCheck.astro';
import Button from '~/components/Button.astro';


There's one more edit to make...

```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" del={5} ins={6}
---
import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
const pageTitle = "About Me";
const happy = true;
const finished = false;
const finished = true;
const goal = 3;
const identity = {
  firstName: "Sarah",
  country: "Canada",
  occupation: "Technical Writer",
  hobbies: ["photography", "birdwatching", "baseball"],
};
const skills = ["HTML", "CSS", "JavaScript", "React", "Astro", "Writing Docs"];
const skillColor = "navy";
const fontWeight = "bold";
const textCase = "uppercase";
---
```

We hope you learned a little about the basics of Astro, and had fun along the way!

You can find the code for the project in this tutorial on [GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete) or
[StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete?file=src/pages/index.astro).

Check out our docs for guides and reference material, and visit our Discord to ask questions, get help or just hang out!

Welcome to the universe, astronaut. 👩🏼‍🚀👨🏿‍🚀🧑‍🚀👩🏾‍🚀

<Box icon="check-list">

## Checklist

<Checklist>
- [ ] I can't wait to start my next Astro project! 🚀
</Checklist>
</Box>

## Next Steps

Continue with either of our tutorial extensions to [add view transitions to this project](/en/tutorials/add-view-transitions/) or to [add a content collection to manage your plog posts](/en/tutorials/add-content-collections/)

[Start a new Astro project](/en/getting-started/)

[Join us on Discord](https://astro.build/chat)

<CompletionConfetti />

## Share your achievement!

Congratulations on completing the Astro blog tutorial! Share your achievement with the world and let everyone know you're an Astronaut now!

<div style="display: flex; flex-wrap: wrap; gap: 0.5rem;">
  <Button href='https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Just%20finished%20learning%20how%20to%20build%20my%20first%20Astro%20blog!%20Check%20it%20out%20at%20https://docs.astro.build/%0Avia%20%40astrodotbuild'>Share on Twitter</Button>
  <Button href='https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https://docs.astro.build/&title=Just%20finished%20learning%20how%20to%20build%20my%20first%20Astro%20blog!'>Share on Reddit</Button>
</div>
