---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Writing dynamic HTML
setup: |
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
---

Now that you have a multi-page website with HTML content, let's add some **Astro Script**!

<Goals>
  - defined variables in your `about.astro` file's script and then used them in its HTML template
  - rendered a combination of static and dynamic content on your About page
  - used values defined in script to conditionally render HTML elements on your About page
</Goals>

Any HTML file is valid Astro language. You can write any text inside HTML elements and Astro will render that **static** (unchanging) content to the page. But, you can do more with Astro than just regular HTML!

You will use the top part of your `.astro` file, the component script, to add **dynamic** content to your page. This is content that depends on and is determined by **values defined elsewhere**, not static text typed directly into your element.


## Define and use a variable

Open `about.astro` which should look like this:

```astro
// src/pages/about.astro
---

---
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset ="utf-8" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <title>Astro</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <a href="/">Home</blog>
        <a href="/about/">About</blog>
        <a href="/blog/">Blog</blog>
        <h1>About Me</h1>
        <h2>... and my new Astro site!</h2>

        <p>I am working through Astro's introductory tutorial. This is the second page on my website, and it's the first one I built myself!</p>

        <p>This site will update as I complete more of the tutorial, so keep checking back and see how my journey is going!</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

1. Add the following line of JavaScript to your Astro script (at the top of your file, between the **code fences**):

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    ---
    const pageTitle = "About Me"
    ---
    ```

2. Replace the static "About Me" heading in the body of your HTML with the dynamic variable `{pageTitle}`.

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" del={1} ins={2}
    <h1>About Me</h1>
    <h1>{pageTitle}</h1>
    ```

3. Check the live preview of your `/about` page
  
  Your site should look the same! 

  Instead of typing text directly into HTML tags, you just **defined and used a variable** in the two sections of your `.astro` file, respectively.

4. Use the same pattern to display a page title for `index.astro` ("Home Page") and `blog.astro` ("My Astro Learning Blog").

:::note[Takeaway]
- **Define** variables in your Astro script using JavaScript or TypeScript expressions.
- **Use** these variables in your Astro template inside curly braces { } to tell Astro you're using some script.
:::

:::tip
Astro script syntax is similar to JSX syntax. If you're ever wondering how to use your script, then searching for how it is done in JSX is probably a good starting point!
:::

## Script expressions

1. Add the following lines to your component script to **define variables**:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    ---
    const goal = 3
    const time = "days"
    const happy = true
    const finished = false
    ---
    ```

2. Then, add the following Astro syntax using these variables to your component template, below your existing `<p>` tags:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    <p>I want to finish this tutorial in {goal} {time}.</p> 
    <p>But, it's ok if it takes me twice as long, and I finish in {goal*2}!</p>
    ```

3. Check the site preview in your browser, and you should now see these two new sentences appear:

    > - I want to finish this tutorial in 3 days.
    > - But, it's ok if it takes me twice as long, and I finish in 6!

## Analyze the patterns
1. How do you **define a value** for use inside an Astro component?

    || _use a `const` statement in the component script, between the code fences_ ||

2. Which pair of symbols tells Astro that you want to **use script** instead of plain text inside your HTML elements?

    || _curly braces_ ||

## Conditional Rendering

You can also use your script variables to choose **whether or not** to render individual elements of your HTML `<body>` content:

Add the following lines of Astro within the `<body></body>` tags of `about.astro`, below your existing paragraphs.

Then, check the live preview in your browser tab to see what is **rendered** to the page:

```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" /:|&&/ "?"
{happy && <p>I am happy to be learning Astro!</p>}

{finished && <p>I finished this tutorial!</p>}

{goal === 3 ? <p>My goal is 3 days.</p> : <p>My goal is not 3 days.</p>}
```
:::note
Regular JavaScript patterns and expressions will work in Astro!
:::

Commit your changes to GitHub before moving on. Do this any time you want to save your work and update your live website!

## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Given the following `.astro` script:

```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
---
operatingSystem = "Linux"
quantity = 3
footwear = "boots"
student = false
---
```

For each Astro template expression, write out the HTML output that will be rendered in the browser:

1.  `<p>{operatingSytem}</p>`

    ||  `<p>Linux</p>` ||

2.  `{student && <p>I am still in school.</p>}`

    || nothing! ||

3.  `<p>I have {quantity + 8} pairs of {clothing}</p>`

    ||  `<p>I have 11 pairs of boots</p>` ||

4.  `{operatingSystem === "MacOS" ? <p>I am using a Mac.</p> : <p>I am not using a Mac.</p>}`

    || `<p>I am not using a Mac.</p>` ||

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="dynamic">
- [ ] I can define values in my Astro script and render these values in HTML elements.
- [ ] I can conditionally render entire HTML elements using JavaScript expressions and logical operators.
</Checklist>

### Resources

- [Dynamic expressions in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#jsx-like-expressions)
