---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Common JavaScript patterns
setup: |
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
---

Now that you can define and use values to display dynamic content, let's explore some common JavaScript patterns!

<Goals>
  - defined objects and arrays in your frontmatter to use in your HTML template
  - used the JavaScript `map()` function to create a list of items from an array
  - compared writing JavaScript in the two different sections of your `.astro` page file
</Goals>

## Objects and Arrays

In the last section, you used JavaScript in your Astro template body to conditionally render HTML elements using logical operators and comparisons. 

You can also use objects and arrays to dynamically create HTML for your page.

Open `about.astro` which should look like this:

```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
---
const pageTitle = "About Me" 
const goal = 3
const time = "days"
const happy = true
const finished = false
---
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset ="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
    <title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a href="/">Home</blog>
    <a href="/about/">About</blog>
    <a href="/blog/">Blog</blog>
    <h1>{pageTitle}</h1>

    <p>I want to finish this tutorial in {goal} {time}.</p> 
    <p>But, it's ok if it takes me twice as long, and I finish in {goal*2}!</p>

    {happy && <p>I am happy to be learning Astro!</p>}

    {finished && <p>I finished this tutorial!</p>}

    {goal === 3 ? <p>My goal is 3 days.</p> : <p>My goal is not 3 days.</p>}
  </body>
</html>
```

1. Add the following JavaScript object to your frontmatter, between the **code fences**:

      (You can customize the code for yourself, but this tutorial will use the following example.)

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" ins={2-7}
    ---
    const identity = {
      firstName: "Sarah",
      country: "Canada",
      occupation: "Technical Writer",
      hobbies: ["photography", "birdwatching", "baseball"],
    }
    ---
    ```

1. After your conditional expressions in your HTML template, add the following code:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro" ins={7-14}
    {happy && <p>I am happy to be learning Astro!</p>}

    {finished && <p>I finished this tutorial!</p>}

    {goal === 3 ? <p>My goal is 3 days.</p> : <p>My goal is not 3 days.</p>}

    <p>Here are a few facts about me:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>My name is {identity.firstName}</li>
      <li>I live in {identity.country} and I work as a {identity.occupation}</li>
      {identity.hobbies.length >= 2 && 
        <li>Two of my hobbies are: {identity.hobbies[0]} and {identity.hobbies[1]}</li>
      } 
    </ul>
    ```

1. Check the live preview of your `/about` page to see your changes.


## Generating Multiple HTML elements with `map()`

In the example above, you wrote two separate expressions to refer to your first and second hobbies.

This time, you will use JavaScript's `map()` function in your HTML template to go through each item in an array, and return the same HTML element (`<li></li>`) for each item, all in one expression.

1. Add the following line to your frontmatter script which defines an array of skills:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    ---
    const skills = ["HTML", "CSS", "JavaScript", "React", "Astro", "Writing Docs"]
    ---
    ```

2. Then, add the following code to your HTML template, below your existing content:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    <p>My skills are:<p>
    <ul>
      {skills.map((skill) => <li>{skill}</li>)}
    </ul>
    ```
3. Check the preview in your browser, and you should now see a list of all the skills defined in your script:

    > My skills are:
    > - HTML
    > - CSS
    > - JavaScript
    > - React
    > - Astro
    > - Writing Docs

Not ony did you save time by not typing out the entire list, but your code is shorter and you might find it easier to read or change in the future!

## Moving JavaScript to frontmatter

So far, you have written JavaScript expressions in your template for small calclulations, conditional rendering, and repeatedly generating elements. JavaScript written in your HTML template is a powerful tool to help you create the elements you want to display on your page. 

But, the frontmatter script section of any `.astro` file is the place where you will normally write JavaScript (or TypeScript) to make values available for use in your HTML template. 

Let's move some JavaScript you have already written (for defining a value) in your HTML template up into the code fences.

1. In `about.astro`, look for the following line of code:

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    <p>But, it's ok if it takes me twice as long, and I finish in {goal * 2}!</p>
    ```

2. Define a new variable `double` in your frontmatter script as `goal * 2`

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    ---
    const double = goal * 2
    ---
    ```

3. Replace the JavaScript calculation `goal * 2` in your `<p>` element with the value `double`.

    ```astro title="src/pages/about.astro"
    <p>But, it's ok if it takes me twice as long, and I finish in {double}!</p>
    ```

    :::note
    You can define `double` anywhere in the list of all the other values you are defining in `about.astro`, as long as it is **after you have defined `goal`** (so that the calculation `goal * 2` makes sense.)
    :::

4. Go back and check your browser preview, and you should see that the page still looks the same. 

    It didn't matter whether your JavaScript calculation occured in the Astro frontmatter script, or in the HTML template. In your `.astro` file, both sections can contain JavaScript.

    But, notice that you do **not need curly braces** when you write your JS within the code fences. JavaScript is the language of your Astro frontmatter script section.

    You will only use (and, you **must** use) curly braces when you are writing JavaScript expressions in the HTML template of your `.astro` file. Curly braces tell Astro that you are writing JavaScript in your template instead of plain HTML. These braces are not necessary in your frontmatter: everything written between the code fences must be JavaScript.

:::note[Takeaways]
1. The Astro template body is written in HTML, but may also include JavaScript.
2. The Astro frontmatter script contains only JavaScript. 
3. You can use all modern Javascript **logical operators**, **expressions** and **functions** in either section of your `.astro` file. But, curly braces are necessary (only) in the HTML template body.

Make any changes or additions you want to the content of your About page by adding HTML elements to the page template, either statically or dynamically. Write any additional JavaScript in your frontmatter script to provide you with values to use in your HTML. When you are happy with this page, commit your changes to GitHub before moving on to the next lesson.

## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with: **expressions** ~~ **curly braces** ~~ **objects and values** ~~ **JavaScript** 

`.astro` files have two sections: one where || **JavaScript** || is assumed, and one where you must use || **curly braces** || to tell Astro when you are writing JavaScript.

Even though plain HTML is all you need to write in your `.astro` files, Astro lets you define || **objects and values** ||, and supports all modern JavaScript logical operators, || **expressions** || and functions.

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="jsx">
- [ ] I can define objects and arrays in my Astro script and render their contents in HTML elements.
- [ ] I can use the JavaScript `map()` function to iterate over an array and produce the same HTML element for each one. 
</Checklist>

### Resources

- [Astro syntax vs JSX - comparison](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#differences-between-astro-and-jsx)
