---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Using Astro Style Tags
setup: |
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
---
## Goals

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- Used Astro `<style></style>` tags to style items on the page
- Defined and used CSS variables using `define:vars` directive
- Applied some styles globally by adding a `global.css` file

Now that you have more content on your page, let's style it!

## Summary
Using Astro's own `<style></style>` tags, you can style items on your page. Adding *attributes* and *directives* gives you even more ways to style!

### Styling an Individual Page

1. Copy the following code and paste it into `src/pages/about.astro` immediately after the code fence, before the `<html>` tag:

```astro
<style>
    h1 {
        color: purple;
    }
</style>
```
Check all three pages in your browser preview. Which color is the page title of:

- your Home page?  || _black_ ||
- your About page? || _purple_ ||
- your Blog page? || _black_ ||

>Tip: If you are unable to determine colors visually, you can use the dev tools in your browser to inspect the `<h1>` title elements and verify the text color applied!

2. Copy the following code and past it into `src/pages/blog.astro` immediately after the code fence, before the `<html>` tag:

```astro
<style>
    .skill {
       color: green;
       font-weight: bold;
    }
</style>
```

Visit your blog page in your browser and you should not notice any changes. That's because there are no HTML elements with the class name of `skill` yet.

3. Update your unordered list of skills on your blog page by adding the class name `skill` to the generated line items. Your code should now look like this:

```astro
<p>My skills are:<p>
<ul>
    {skills.map( (skill) => <li class="skill">{skill}</li>)}
</ul>
```
Visit your blog page in your browser again, and verify, through visual inspection or through dev tools, that each item in your list of skills is now green and bold.

### CSS Variables
The Astro `<style>` tag can also reference any variables from your component script using the `define:vars={...}` directive. You can **define variables** within your code fence, then use them in your style tag.

1. Add the following code into the component script of `src/pages/blog.astro`
```astro
---
const skillColor = "green";
---
```

2. Update your existing `<style>` tag below to define, then use this `skillColor` variable.
```astro
<style define:vars={{skillColor}}>
    .skill {
       color: var(--skillColor);
       font-weight: bold;
    }
</style>
```
3. Check your Blog page in your browser preview, and and once again, you should not notice any changes! The color green is still being applied, but now through the `define:vars` directive.

### Try it Yourself!
 
 Update the `<style>` tag on your Blog page so that it matches the one below. Then, add any missing variable definitions in your component script so that your new `<style>` tag successfully applies these styles to your list of skills:
 - the text color is green
 - the text is bold
 - the items are in all-caps (all uppercase letters)
 - the list bullets are asterisks (*)
```astro
<style define:vars={{skillColor, fontWeight, textCase, bulletStyle}}>
    .skill {
       color: var(--skillColor);
       font-weight: var(--fontWeight);
       text-transform: var(--textCase);
    }
    ul::li marker {
        content: var(--bulletStyle);
    }
</style>
```
[ANSWER]
```astro
---
const skillColor = "green"
const fontWeight = "bold"
const textCase = "uppercase"
const bulletStyle = "*"
---
```
### Global Styles
You have seen that the Astro `<style>` tag is **scoped by default**, meaning that it only affects the elements in its own file. But, you will probably want some styles defined globally, throughout your entire project. 

There are a few ways to do this in Astro, but in this tutorial, we will create and import a `global.css` file into each of our pages. This combination of stylesheet and `<style>` tag gives us the ability to control some styles site-wide, and to apply some specific styles exactly where we want them.

1. Create a new file at the location `src/styles/global.css` (You may have to create a new folder first.)
2. Copy the following code into your new file, `global.css`
```astro
html {
    background-color: #00539F;
}
body {
    background-color: #E2CAF1;
    margin: 0 auto;
    width: 80%;
    max-width: 80ch;
    padding: 1em;
    border: 5px solid black;
}

h1 {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 20px 0;
    color: #00539F;
    text-shadow: 3px 3px 1px grey;
}
```


3. Add the following import statement into `src/pages/blog.astro` at the top of the file, as the first line of code inside the code fence.
```astro
---
import '../styles/global.css'
// the rest of the script follows
---
```

4. Check the browser preview of your Blog page, and you should now see new styles applied!

### Try it Yourself
Make the necessary additions to your project to apply your styles to every page of your site!

[ANSWER]
Add the same import statement to the two other page files: `src/pages/index.astro` and `src/pages/about.astro` Don't forget to add it to the very top of your component script!

## Before You Go 

### Analyze the Pattern
Your About page is now styled using *both* the imported `global.css` file *and* a `<style>` tag.

- Are styles from both styling methods being applied? 

|| Yes ||

- Are there any conflicting styles, and if so, which are applied?

|| Yes, `h1` is defined as black globally, but purple locally in the `<style>` tag. The purple color is applied.  ||

- Describe how `global.css` and `<style>` work together with respect to [CSS specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity).

|| When conflicting styles are defined both globally and in a page's local `<script>` tag, the local styles have a higher specificity weighting, and will overwrite any global styles.  ||

- How would you choose whether to declare a style in a `global.css` file or a `<style>` tag?

|| If you want a style to be applied site-wide, you would choose to use a `global.css` file. However, if you want styles to apply to only a single component, and not affect other elements on your site, you would choose a `<style>` tag. ||

### Checklist for moving on:

<Checklist>
- [ ] I can add CSS styles to HTML elements on a page using an Astro `<style>` tag.
- [ ] I can use variables from my component script in my CSS to style elements on the page.
- [ ] I can define global CSS styles in a `.css` file located elsewhere in my project, and <span style="color:red">**SOME TEXT MISSING HERE!**</span>
</Checklist>

### Resources

[Astro `<style>` tag](/en/guides/styling/#styling-in-astro)

[CSS variables in Astro](/en/guides/styling/#css-variables)
