src/content/docs/en/tutorial/add-content-collections.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorial - Extend with Content Collections
description: >-
  Convert a blog from file-based routing to content collections.
i18nReady: true
---
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'
import FileTree from '~/components/FileTree.astro'
import Since from '~/components/Since.astro'
import TypeScriptSettingTabs from '~/components/tabs/TypeScriptSettingTabs.astro'
import RecipeLinks from "~/components/RecipeLinks.astro"


**Content collections** are a powerful way to manage groups of similar content, such as blog posts. Collections help to organize your documents, validate your YAML frontmatter, and provide automatic TypeScript type-safety for all of your content (even if you don't write any TypeScript yourself).

## Build a Blog Tutorial Code

In the Build a Blog introductory tutorial, you learned about Astro's [built-in file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#static-routes): any `.astro` or `.md` file anywhere within the `src/pages/` folder automatically became a page on your site.

To create your first blog post at `https://example.com/posts/post-1/`, you created a `/posts/` folder and added the file `post-1.md`. You then added a new Markdown file to this folder every time you wanted to add a new blog post to your site.


## Pages vs Collections

Even when using content collections, you will still use the `src/pages/` folder for individual pages, such as your About Me page. But, moving your blog posts to the special `src/content/` folder will allow you to use more powerful and performant APIs to generate your blog post index and display your individual blog posts.

At the same time, you'll receive more helpful guidance and autocompletion in your editor because you will have a **schema** that allows you to specify when frontmatter properties are required, such as a description or an author.

Read more about [Astro's content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/) in our guide, or get started with the instructions below to convert a basic blog from `src/pages/posts/` to `src/content/posts/`.


## Prerequisites

You will need **an existing Astro project with Markdown files in the `src/pages/` folder**.

This tutorial uses the [Build a Blog tutorial's finished project](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo) to demonstrate converting a blog to content collections. You can fork and use that codebase locally, or complete the tutorial in the browser by [editing the blog tutorial's code in StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete?file=src%2Fpages%2Findex.astro).

You can instead follow similar steps in your own Astro project, but you will need to adjust the instructions for your own codebase. We recommend using our sample project to complete this short tutorial first. Then, you can use what you have learned to work on your own codebase.

## Extending the blog tutorial with content collections

The steps below show you how to extend the final product of the Build a Blog tutorial by creating a content collection for the blog posts.

### Upgrade dependencies

1. Upgrade to the latest version of Astro, and upgrade all integrations to their latest versions by running the following commands in your terminal:

    <PackageManagerTabs>
      <Fragment slot="npm">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      npm install astro@latest

      # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      npm install @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
      <Fragment slot="pnpm">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      pnpm install astro@latest

    # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      pnpm install @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
      <Fragment slot="yarn">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      yarn add astro@latest

    # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      yarn add @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
    </PackageManagerTabs>

    :::tip
    If you are using your own project, then be sure to update any dependencies you have installed. The example blog tutorial codebase only uses the Preact integration.
    :::

2. The blog tutorial uses the `base` (least strict) TypeScript setting. In order to use content collections, you must [set up TypeScript](/en/guides/content-collections/#setting-up-typescript) for content collections either by using the `strict` or `strictest` setting, or by adding two options in `tsconfig.json`.

    In order to use content collections without writing TypeScript in the rest of the blog tutorial example, add the following two TypeScript configuration options:

    ```json title="tsconfig.json" ins={5,6}
    {
      // Note: No change needed if you use "astro/tsconfigs/strict" or "astro/tsconfigs/strictest"
      "extends": "astro/tsconfigs/base",
      "compilerOptions": {
        "strictNullChecks": true,
        "allowJs": true
      }
    }
    ```

### Create a collection for your blog posts

3. Create a new **collection** (folder) called `src/content/posts/`. 

4. Move all your existing blog posts (`.md` files) from `src/pages/posts/` into this new collection.

5. Create a `src/content/config.ts` file to [define a schema](/en/guides/content-collections/#defining-a-collection-schema) for your `postsCollection`:

    ```ts title="src/content/config.ts"
    // Import utilities from `astro:content`
    import { z, defineCollection } from "astro:content";
    // Define a `type` and `schema` for each collection
    const postsCollection = defineCollection({
        type: 'content',
        schema: z.object({
          title: z.string(),
          pubDate: z.date(),
          description: z.string(),
          author: z.string(),
          image: z.object({
            url: z.string(),
            alt: z.string()
          }),
          tags: z.array(z.string())
        })
    });
    // Export a single `collections` object to register your collection(s)
    export const collections = {
      posts: postsCollection,
    };
    ```

### Generate pages from a collection

6. Create a page file called `src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro`. Your Markdown and MDX files no longer automatically become pages using Astro's file-based routing when they are inside a collection, so you must create a page responsible for generating each individual blog post.

7. Add the following code to [query your collection](/en/guides/content-collections/#querying-collections) to make each blog post's slug and page content available to each page it will generate:

    ```astro title="src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro"
    ---
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
    import MarkdownPostLayout from '../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro';

    export async function getStaticPaths() {
      const blogEntries = await getCollection('posts');
      return blogEntries.map(entry => ({
        params: { slug: entry.slug }, props: { entry },
      }));
    }

    const { entry } = Astro.props;
    const { Content } = await entry.render();
    ---
    ```
    

8. Render your post `<Content />` within the layout for Markdown pages. This allows you to specify a common layout for all of your posts.

    ```astro title="src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro" ins={15-17}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
    import MarkdownPostLayout from '../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro';

    export async function getStaticPaths() {
      const blogEntries = await getCollection('posts');
      return blogEntries.map(entry => ({
        params: { slug: entry.slug }, props: { entry },
      }));
    }

    const { entry } = Astro.props;
    const { Content } = await entry.render();
    ---
    <MarkdownPostLayout frontmatter={entry.data}>
      <Content />
    </MarkdownPostLayout>
    ```

9. Remove the `layout` definition in each individual post's frontmatter. Your content is now wrapped in a layout when rendered, and this property is no longer needed.

    ```md title="src/content/post-1.md" del={2}
    ---
    layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
    title: 'My First Blog Post'
    pubDate: 2022-07-01
    ...
    ---
    ```

### Replace `Astro.glob()` with `getCollection()`

10. Anywhere you have a list of blog posts, like the tutorial's Blog page (`src/pages/blog.astro/`), you will need to replace `Astro.glob()` with [`getCollection()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#getcollection) as the way to fetch content and metadata from your Markdown files.

      ```astro title="src/pages/blog.astro" "post.data" "getCollection(\"posts\")" "/posts/${post.slug}/" del={7} ins={8}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
    import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
    import BlogPost from "../components/BlogPost.astro";

    const pageTitle = "My Astro Learning Blog";
    const allPosts = await Astro.glob("../pages/posts/*.md");
    const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
    ---

11. You will also need to update references to the data returned for each `post`. You will now find your frontmatter values on the `data` property of each object. Also, when using collections each `post` object will have a page `slug`, not a full URL.

    ```astro title="src/pages/blog.astro" "data" "/posts/$\{post.slug\}/" del={14} ins={15}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
    import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
    import BlogPost from "../components/BlogPost.astro";

    const pageTitle = "My Astro Learning Blog";
    const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
    ---
    <BaseLayout pageTitle={pageTitle}>
      <p>This is where I will post about my journey learning Astro.</p>
      <ul>
        {
          allPosts.map((post) => (
            <BlogPost url={post.url} title={post.frontmatter.title} />)}
            <BlogPost url={`/posts/${post.slug}/`} title={post.data.title} />
          ))
        }
      </ul>
    </BaseLayout> 
    ```

   12. The tutorial blog project also dynamically generates a page for each tag using `src/pages/tags/[tag].astro` and displays a list of tags at `src/pages/tags/index.astro`. 
   
          Apply the same changes as above to these two files:
      
          - fetch data about all your blog posts using `getCollection("posts")` instead of using `Astro.glob()`
          - access all frontmatter values using `data` instead of `frontmatter`
          - create a page URL by adding the post's `slug` to the `/posts/` path
        
        The page that generates individual tag pages now becomes:

        ```astro title="src/pages/tags/[tag].astro" "post.data.tags" "getCollection(\"posts\")" "post.data.title" "/posts/${post.slug}/"
        ---
        import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
        import BaseLayout from "../../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
        import BlogPost from "../../components/BlogPost.astro";

        export async function getStaticPaths() {
          const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
          const uniqueTags = [...new Set(allPosts.map((post) => post.data.tags).flat())];

          return uniqueTags.map((tag) => {
            const filteredPosts = allPosts.filter((post) =>
              post.data.tags.includes(tag)
            );
            return {
              params: { tag },
              props: { posts: filteredPosts },
            };
          });
        }
        
        const { tag } = Astro.params;
        const { posts } = Astro.props;
        ---

        <BaseLayout pageTitle={tag}>
            <p>Posts tagged with {tag}</p>
            <ul>
                { posts.map((post) => <BlogPost url={`/posts/${post.slug}/`} title={post.data.title} />) }
            </ul>
        </BaseLayout>
        ```

        The tag index page now becomes:
        
        ```astro title="src/pages/tags/index.astro" "post.data" "getCollection(\"posts\")"
        ---
        import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
        import BaseLayout from "../../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
        const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
        const tags = [...new Set(allPosts.map((post) => post.data.tags).flat())];
        const pageTitle = "Tag Index";
        ---
        ...
        ```

### Update any frontmatter values to match your schema

13. If necessary, update any frontmatter values throughout your project, such as in your layout, that do not match your collections schema. 

    In the blog tutorial example, `pubDate` was a string. Now, according to the schema that defines types for the post frontmatter, `pubDate` will be a `Date`
    object.
    
    To render the date in the blog post layout, convert it to a string:

    ```astro title="src/layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro" ins="toString()"
    ...
    <BaseLayout pageTitle={frontmatter.title}>
      <p>{frontmatter.pubDate.toString().slice(0,10)}</p>
      <p><em>{frontmatter.description}</em></p>
      <p>Written by: {frontmatter.author}</p>
      <img src={frontmatter.image.url} width="300" alt={frontmatter.image.alt} />
    ...
    ```

### Update RSS function

14. Lastly, the tutorial blog project includes an RSS feed. This function must also use `getCollection()` to return information from your blog posts. You will then generate the rss items using the `data` object returned.

    ```js title="src/pages/rss.xml.js" del={2,11} ins={3,6,12-16}
    import rss from '@astrojs/rss';
    import { pagesGlobToRssItems } from '@astrojs/rss';
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

    export async function GET(context) {
      const posts = await getCollection("posts");
      return rss({
        title: 'Astro Learner | Blog',
        description: 'My journey learning Astro',
        site: context.site,
        items: await pagesGlobToRssItems(import.meta.glob('./**/*.md')),
        items: posts.map((post) => ({
          title: post.data.title,
          pubDate: post.data.pubDate,
          description: post.data.description,
          link: `/posts/${post.slug}/`,
        })),
        customData: `<language>en-us</language>`,
      })
    }
    ```

For the full example of the blog tutorial using content collections, see the [Content Collections branch](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/content-collections) of the tutorial repo.

Commit message:

reorder sections to create reusable structure for these guides

src/content/docs/en/tutorial/add-content-collections.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorial - Extend with Content Collections
description: >-
  Convert a blog from file-based routing to content collections.
i18nReady: true
---
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'
import FileTree from '~/components/FileTree.astro'
import Since from '~/components/Since.astro'
import TypeScriptSettingTabs from '~/components/tabs/TypeScriptSettingTabs.astro'
import RecipeLinks from "~/components/RecipeLinks.astro"


**Content collections** are a powerful way to manage groups of similar content, such as blog posts. Collections help to organize your documents, validate your YAML frontmatter, and provide automatic TypeScript type-safety for all of your content (even if you don't write any TypeScript yourself).

## Prerequisites

You will need **an existing Astro project with Markdown or MDX files in the `src/pages/` folder**.

This tutorial uses the [Build a Blog tutorial's finished project](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo) to demonstrate converting a blog to content collections. You can fork and use that codebase locally, or complete the tutorial in the browser by [editing the blog tutorial's code in StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/complete?file=src%2Fpages%2Findex.astro).

You can instead follow similar steps in your own Astro project, but you will need to adjust the instructions for your own codebase. We recommend using our sample project to complete this short tutorial first. Then, you can use what you have learned to work on your own codebase.

## Build a Blog Tutorial Code

In the Build a Blog introductory tutorial, you learned about Astro's [built-in file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#static-routes): any `.astro` or `.md` file anywhere within the `src/pages/` folder automatically became a page on your site.

To create your first blog post at `https://example.com/posts/post-1/`, you created a `/posts/` folder and added the file `post-1.md`. You then added a new Markdown file to this folder every time you wanted to add a new blog post to your site.


## Pages vs Collections

Even when using content collections, you will still use the `src/pages/` folder for individual pages, such as your About Me page. But, moving your blog posts to the special `src/content/` folder will allow you to use more powerful and performant APIs to generate your blog post index and display your individual blog posts.

At the same time, you'll receive better guidance and autocompletion in your code editor because you will have a **[schema](/en/guides/content-collections/#defining-a-collection-schema)** to define a common structure for each post that Astro will help you enforce. In your schema, you can specify when frontmatter properties are required, such as a description or an author, and which data type each property must be, such as a string or an array. The leads to catching many mistakes sooner, with descriptive error messages telling you exactly what the problem is.

Read more about [Astro's content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/) in our guide, or get started with the instructions below to convert a basic blog from `src/pages/posts/` to `src/content/posts/`.

## Extending the blog tutorial with content collections

The steps below show you how to extend the final product of the Build a Blog tutorial by creating a content collection for the blog posts.

### Upgrade dependencies

1. Upgrade to the latest version of Astro, and upgrade all integrations to their latest versions by running the following commands in your terminal:

    <PackageManagerTabs>
      <Fragment slot="npm">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      npm install astro@latest

      # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      npm install @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
      <Fragment slot="pnpm">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      pnpm install astro@latest

    # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      pnpm install @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
      <Fragment slot="yarn">
      ```shell
      # Upgrade to Astro v3.x
      yarn add astro@latest

    # Example: upgrade the blog tutorial Preact integration
      yarn add @astrojs/preact@latest
      ```
      </Fragment>
    </PackageManagerTabs>

    :::tip
    If you are using your own project, then be sure to update any dependencies you have installed. The example blog tutorial codebase only uses the Preact integration.
    :::

2. The blog tutorial uses the `base` (least strict) TypeScript setting. In order to use content collections, you must [set up TypeScript](/en/guides/content-collections/#setting-up-typescript) for content collections either by using the `strict` or `strictest` setting, or by adding two options in `tsconfig.json`.

    In order to use content collections without writing TypeScript in the rest of the blog tutorial example, add the following two TypeScript configuration options:

    ```json title="tsconfig.json" ins={5,6}
    {
      // Note: No change needed if you use "astro/tsconfigs/strict" or "astro/tsconfigs/strictest"
      "extends": "astro/tsconfigs/base",
      "compilerOptions": {
        "strictNullChecks": true,
        "allowJs": true
      }
    }
    ```

### Create a collection for your blog posts

3. Create a new **collection** (folder) called `src/content/posts/`. 

4. Move all your existing blog posts (`.md` files) from `src/pages/posts/` into this new collection.

5. Create a `src/content/config.ts` file to [define a schema](/en/guides/content-collections/#defining-a-collection-schema) for your `postsCollection`:

    ```ts title="src/content/config.ts"
    // Import utilities from `astro:content`
    import { z, defineCollection } from "astro:content";
    // Define a `type` and `schema` for each collection
    const postsCollection = defineCollection({
        type: 'content',
        schema: z.object({
          title: z.string(),
          pubDate: z.date(),
          description: z.string(),
          author: z.string(),
          image: z.object({
            url: z.string(),
            alt: z.string()
          }),
          tags: z.array(z.string())
        })
    });
    // Export a single `collections` object to register your collection(s)
    export const collections = {
      posts: postsCollection,
    };
    ```

### Generate pages from a collection

6. Create a page file called `src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro`. Your Markdown and MDX files no longer automatically become pages using Astro's file-based routing when they are inside a collection, so you must create a page responsible for generating each individual blog post.

7. Add the following code to [query your collection](/en/guides/content-collections/#querying-collections) to make each blog post's slug and page content available to each page it will generate:

    ```astro title="src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro"
    ---
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
    import MarkdownPostLayout from '../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro';

    export async function getStaticPaths() {
      const blogEntries = await getCollection('posts');
      return blogEntries.map(entry => ({
        params: { slug: entry.slug }, props: { entry },
      }));
    }

    const { entry } = Astro.props;
    const { Content } = await entry.render();
    ---
    ```
    

8. Render your post `<Content />` within the layout for Markdown pages. This allows you to specify a common layout for all of your posts.

    ```astro title="src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro" ins={15-17}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
    import MarkdownPostLayout from '../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro';

    export async function getStaticPaths() {
      const blogEntries = await getCollection('posts');
      return blogEntries.map(entry => ({
        params: { slug: entry.slug }, props: { entry },
      }));
    }

    const { entry } = Astro.props;
    const { Content } = await entry.render();
    ---
    <MarkdownPostLayout frontmatter={entry.data}>
      <Content />
    </MarkdownPostLayout>
    ```

9. Remove the `layout` definition in each individual post's frontmatter. Your content is now wrapped in a layout when rendered, and this property is no longer needed.

    ```md title="src/content/post-1.md" del={2}
    ---
    layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
    title: 'My First Blog Post'
    pubDate: 2022-07-01
    ...
    ---
    ```

### Replace `Astro.glob()` with `getCollection()`

10. Anywhere you have a list of blog posts, like the tutorial's Blog page (`src/pages/blog.astro/`), you will need to replace `Astro.glob()` with [`getCollection()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#getcollection) as the way to fetch content and metadata from your Markdown files.

      ```astro title="src/pages/blog.astro" "post.data" "getCollection(\"posts\")" "/posts/${post.slug}/" del={7} ins={8}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
    import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
    import BlogPost from "../components/BlogPost.astro";

    const pageTitle = "My Astro Learning Blog";
    const allPosts = await Astro.glob("../pages/posts/*.md");
    const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
    ---

11. You will also need to update references to the data returned for each `post`. You will now find your frontmatter values on the `data` property of each object. Also, when using collections each `post` object will have a page `slug`, not a full URL.

    ```astro title="src/pages/blog.astro" "data" "/posts/$\{post.slug\}/" del={14} ins={15}
    ---
    import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
    import BaseLayout from "../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
    import BlogPost from "../components/BlogPost.astro";

    const pageTitle = "My Astro Learning Blog";
    const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
    ---
    <BaseLayout pageTitle={pageTitle}>
      <p>This is where I will post about my journey learning Astro.</p>
      <ul>
        {
          allPosts.map((post) => (
            <BlogPost url={post.url} title={post.frontmatter.title} />)}
            <BlogPost url={`/posts/${post.slug}/`} title={post.data.title} />
          ))
        }
      </ul>
    </BaseLayout> 
    ```

   12. The tutorial blog project also dynamically generates a page for each tag using `src/pages/tags/[tag].astro` and displays a list of tags at `src/pages/tags/index.astro`. 
   
          Apply the same changes as above to these two files:
      
          - fetch data about all your blog posts using `getCollection("posts")` instead of using `Astro.glob()`
          - access all frontmatter values using `data` instead of `frontmatter`
          - create a page URL by adding the post's `slug` to the `/posts/` path
        
        The page that generates individual tag pages now becomes:

        ```astro title="src/pages/tags/[tag].astro" "post.data.tags" "getCollection(\"posts\")" "post.data.title" "/posts/${post.slug}/"
        ---
        import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
        import BaseLayout from "../../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
        import BlogPost from "../../components/BlogPost.astro";

        export async function getStaticPaths() {
          const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
          const uniqueTags = [...new Set(allPosts.map((post) => post.data.tags).flat())];

          return uniqueTags.map((tag) => {
            const filteredPosts = allPosts.filter((post) =>
              post.data.tags.includes(tag)
            );
            return {
              params: { tag },
              props: { posts: filteredPosts },
            };
          });
        }
        
        const { tag } = Astro.params;
        const { posts } = Astro.props;
        ---

        <BaseLayout pageTitle={tag}>
            <p>Posts tagged with {tag}</p>
            <ul>
                { posts.map((post) => <BlogPost url={`/posts/${post.slug}/`} title={post.data.title} />) }
            </ul>
        </BaseLayout>
        ```

        The tag index page now becomes:
        
        ```astro title="src/pages/tags/index.astro" "post.data" "getCollection(\"posts\")"
        ---
        import { getCollection } from "astro:content";
        import BaseLayout from "../../layouts/BaseLayout.astro";
        const allPosts = await getCollection("posts");
        const tags = [...new Set(allPosts.map((post) => post.data.tags).flat())];
        const pageTitle = "Tag Index";
        ---
        ...
        ```

### Update any frontmatter values to match your schema

13. If necessary, update any frontmatter values throughout your project, such as in your layout, that do not match your collections schema. 

    In the blog tutorial example, `pubDate` was a string. Now, according to the schema that defines types for the post frontmatter, `pubDate` will be a `Date`
    object.
    
    To render the date in the blog post layout, convert it to a string:

    ```astro title="src/layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro" ins="toString()"
    ...
    <BaseLayout pageTitle={frontmatter.title}>
      <p>{frontmatter.pubDate.toString().slice(0,10)}</p>
      <p><em>{frontmatter.description}</em></p>
      <p>Written by: {frontmatter.author}</p>
      <img src={frontmatter.image.url} width="300" alt={frontmatter.image.alt} />
    ...
    ```

### Update RSS function

14. Lastly, the tutorial blog project includes an RSS feed. This function must also use `getCollection()` to return information from your blog posts. You will then generate the rss items using the `data` object returned.

    ```js title="src/pages/rss.xml.js" del={2,11} ins={3,6,12-16}
    import rss from '@astrojs/rss';
    import { pagesGlobToRssItems } from '@astrojs/rss';
    import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

    export async function GET(context) {
      const posts = await getCollection("posts");
      return rss({
        title: 'Astro Learner | Blog',
        description: 'My journey learning Astro',
        site: context.site,
        items: await pagesGlobToRssItems(import.meta.glob('./**/*.md')),
        items: posts.map((post) => ({
          title: post.data.title,
          pubDate: post.data.pubDate,
          description: post.data.description,
          link: `/posts/${post.slug}/`,
        })),
        customData: `<language>en-us</language>`,
      })
    }
    ```

For the full example of the blog tutorial using content collections, see the [Content Collections branch](https://github.com/withastro/blog-tutorial-demo/tree/content-collections) of the tutorial repo.
