src/content/docs/en/guides/cms/cosmic.mdx, before:

---
title: Cosmic & Astro
description: Add content to your Astro project using Cosmic as a CMS
type: cms
service: Cosmic
i18nReady: true
---
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'



[Cosmic](https://www.cosmicjs.com/) is a [headless CMS](https://www.cosmicjs.com/headless-cms) that provides an admin dashboard to manage content and an API that can integrate with a diverse range of frontend tools.

## Prerequisites

1. **An Astro project**- If you’d like to start with a fresh Astro project, read the [installation guide](/en/install/auto/). This guide follows a simplified version of the [Astro Headless CMS Theme](https://astro.build/themes/details/cosmic-cms-blog/) with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for styling.
2. **A Cosmic account and Bucket** - [Create a free Cosmic account](https://app.cosmicjs.com/signup) if you don’t have one. After creating your account, you'll be prompted to create a new empty project. There's also a [Simple Astro Blog template](https://www.cosmicjs.com/marketplace/templates/simple-astro-blog) available (this is the same template as the Astro Headless CMS Theme) to automatically import all of the content used in this guide.

## Integrating Cosmic with Astro

Start by using the [Cosmic JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/cosmicjs/cosmic-sdk-js) to fetch data from the Cosmic Bucket.

### Configuring API Keys

API keys are the bridge between Cosmic and an Astro project. In the top navigation menu of the Cosmic dashboard, navigate to **API keys** to retrieve both the **Bucket slug** and **Bucket read key**. Paste these into the **.env** file in your Astro project.

```ini title=".env"
PUBLIC_COSMIC_BUCKET_SLUG=YOUR_BUCKET_SLUG
PUBLIC_COSMIC_READ_KEY=YOUR_READ_KEY
```

## Installing Necessary Dependencies

To seamlessly pull content from Cosmic, add the [Cosmic JavaScript SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cosmicjs/sdk).

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

## Fetching Data from Cosmic

Once you've installed the Cosmic JavaScript SDK and have the necessary API keys, initiate the Cosmic instance within the Astro project. Designing queries to fetch specific content types or items will be instrumental. As a quick test, create a simple Astro component to display the fetched data.

Place the functions to fetch Cosmic content in a file called `cosmic.js`. Place this file inside of the `src/lib` folder in your project. Place the following function inside of this file which then can be utilized in Astro components.

```js
// src/lib/cosmic.js
import { createBucketClient } from '@cosmicjs/sdk'

const cosmic = createBucketClient({
  bucketSlug: import.meta.env.PUBLIC_COSMIC_BUCKET_SLUG,
  readKey: import.meta.env.PUBLIC_COSMIC_READ_KEY
})

export async function getAllPosts() {
  const data = await cosmic.objects
    .find({
      type: 'posts'
    })
    .props('title,slug,metadata,created_at')
  return data.objects
}
```

This function utilizes the chaining method `.find` from the Cosmic SDK. here, `.props` is used to fetch the desired metadata from the Object in Cosmic. Read more about [queries in the Cosmic documentation](https://www.cosmicjs.com/docs/api/queries).

The following example, shows fetching a list of blog posts from Cosmic directly inside an Astro component.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import Card from '../components/Card.astro'
import { getAllPosts } from '../lib/cosmic'

const data = await getAllPosts()
---

<section>
  <ul class="grid gap-8 md:grid-cols-2">
    {
      data.map((post) => (
        <Card
          title={post.title}
          href={post.slug}
          body={post.metadata.excerpt}
          tags={post.metadata.tags.map((tag) => tag)}
        />
      ))
    }
  </ul>
</section>
```

[View source code for the Card component](https://github.com/cosmicjs/simple-astro-blog/blob/main/src/components/Card.astro)

## Building a Blog with Astro and Cosmic

Now that we’ve gone through the setup of Cosmic within an Astro project, we’re ready to create a blog to further our understanding of this integration.

### Setting up content in Cosmic

The content structure is the backbone of our blog. Within Cosmic, we will create a content model tailored for your blog posts, defining fields like title, excerpt, content, image, and more. Let’s start by creating a new **Object Type** in Cosmic called **posts**. To do this, look for Object Types in the sidebar navigation, and click the **plus icon**.

Our posts Object Type will be set to “Multiple”, because we will have several of them. Add the singular name “post”, and click “Next” to move to the Content model settings.

On the right hand side, there are several Metafields we can select from to build our Content model. Click and drag these 5 Metafields onto your Content model and name them accordingly:

1. **Text input** - Author
2. **Image** - Cover Image
3. **Repeater** - Tags
    - **Text input** - Title
4. **Text area** - Excerpt  
5. **Rich Text** - Content

Once you’ve added these Metafields, click the “Next” button in the top right. We don’t need to add any additional settings, so you can click “Save” and we can move on to create our first Blog Post. Go ahead and populate each field with some content.

### Displaying a List of Blog Posts in Astro

With the blog data ready in Cosmic, the next step is showcasing it in Astro. By integrating the [data-fetching method](#fetching-data-from-cosmic) we set up earlier, we can render each blog post, creating a dynamic list of them for site visitors.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import Card from '../components/Card.astro'
import { getAllPosts } from '../lib/cosmic'

const data = await getAllPosts()
---

<section>
  <ul class="grid gap-8 md:grid-cols-2">
    {
      data.map((post) => (
        <Card
          title={post.title}
          href={post.slug}
          body={post.metadata.excerpt}
          tags={post.metadata.tags.map((tag) => tag)}
        />
      ))
    }
  </ul>
</section>
```

### Generating Individual Blog Posts with Astro

For a more detailed view, each blog post needs its dedicated page. We can implement routing within Astro to navigate to individual blog URLs. Through Astro's dynamic rendering capabilities, each blog URL will correspond to its respective Object **slug** from Cosmic.

Now, we will fetch our Blog Posts using the same function `getAllPosts()` as we used before, however, this time we will execute the function inside of `getStaticPaths()` . This function is called at build time and generates and renders all of your Blog Posts at once.

To access our data from Cosmic, we return each post inside of our `Astro.props` . This allows us to use that data within the HTML template portion of our component and render each page.

In our HTML markup, we access the various data from Cosmic, such as the post title, cover image, and the rich text content. By using [set&colon;html](/en/reference/directives-reference/#sethtml), the rich text content from Cosmic is parsed and rendered into HTML elements on our page.

```astro
 ---
 // src/pages/blog/[slug].astro
import { getAllPosts } from '../../lib/cosmic'
import { Image } from 'astro:assets'

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const data = (await getAllPosts()) || []

  return data.map((post) => {
    return {
      params: { slug: post.slug },
      props: { post }
    }
  })
}

const { post } = Astro.props
---

<article class="mx-auto max-w-screen-md pt-20">
  <section class="border-b pb-8">
    <h1 class="text-4xl font-bold">{post.title}</h1>
    <div class="my-4"></div>
    <span class="text-sm font-semibold">{post.metadata.author?.title}</span>
  </section>
  {
    post.metadata.cover_image && (
      <Image
        src={post.metadata.cover_image.imgix_url}
        format="webp"
        width={1200}
        height={675}
        aspectRatio={16 / 9}
        quality={50}
        alt={`Cover image for the blog ${post.title}`}
        class={'my-12 rounded-md shadow-lg'}
      />
    )
  }
  <div set:html={post.metadata.content} />
</article>
```

## Deployment Strategies with Astro and Cosmic

### Deploy on Vercel

Vercel provides an intuitive deployment platform for web applications. Start by pushing your Astro project to a Git repository and linking it to Vercel. During the Vercel deployment process, ensure that you set environment variables, such as the **Bucket slug** and **Bucket read key** from Cosmic. Visit our [Vercel deployment guide](/en/guides/deploy/vercel/) for more information on how to deploy your Astro site to Vercel.

### Rebuilding Astro Site when Cosmic content updates

Vercel can be configured to listen for content changes via Vercel's deploy hooks, and combined with Cosmic's [webhook capabilities](https://www.cosmicjs.com/docs/api/webhooks), content updates in Cosmic can automatically trigger a redeploy of your Astro site hosted on Vercel.

To set up the deploy hook in Vercel, go to **settings** then to **git.** From here, name your deploy hook and select the branch which you would like to redeploy when the URL endpoint is hit. We will use this URL endpoint later in Cosmic to be on the receiving end of our webhook.

To set up webhooks in Cosmic, navigate to **settings** in the top navigation bar, then to **webhooks** in the left sidebar navigation. Add the URL endpoint from Vercel to Cosmic, and select the Object Type you would like to trigger the webhook. Click “Add webhook” to save it. Now whenever you make content updates or new Objects to the Object Type selected, the deploy hook will trigger a redeploy of your website on Vercel.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review #2
Co-authored-by: Reuben Tier <64310361+TheOtterlord@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Elian ☕️ <hello@elian.codes>

src/content/docs/en/guides/cms/cosmic.mdx, after:

---
title: Cosmic & Astro
description: Add content to your Astro project using Cosmic as a CMS
type: cms
service: Cosmic
i18nReady: true
---
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'



[Cosmic](https://www.cosmicjs.com/) is a [headless CMS](https://www.cosmicjs.com/headless-cms) that provides an admin dashboard to manage content and an API that can integrate with a diverse range of frontend tools.

## Prerequisites

1. **An Astro project**- If you’d like to start with a fresh Astro project, read the [installation guide](/en/install/auto/). This guide follows a simplified version of the [Astro Headless CMS Theme](https://astro.build/themes/details/cosmic-cms-blog/) with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for styling.
2. **A Cosmic account and Bucket** - [Create a free Cosmic account](https://app.cosmicjs.com/signup) if you don’t have one. After creating your account, you'll be prompted to create a new empty project. There's also a [Simple Astro Blog template](https://www.cosmicjs.com/marketplace/templates/simple-astro-blog) available (this is the same template as the Astro Headless CMS Theme) to automatically import all of the content used in this guide.

## Integrating Cosmic with Astro

Start by using the [Cosmic JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/cosmicjs/cosmic-sdk-js) to fetch data from the Cosmic Bucket.

### Configuring API Keys

API keys are the bridge between Cosmic and an Astro project. In the top navigation menu of the Cosmic dashboard, navigate to **API keys** to retrieve both the **Bucket slug** and **Bucket read key**. Paste these into the **.env** file in your Astro project.

```ini title=".env"
PUBLIC_COSMIC_BUCKET_SLUG=YOUR_BUCKET_SLUG
PUBLIC_COSMIC_READ_KEY=YOUR_READ_KEY
```

## Installing Necessary Dependencies

To seamlessly pull content from Cosmic, add the [Cosmic JavaScript SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cosmicjs/sdk).

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add @cosmicjs/sdk
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

## Fetching Data from Cosmic

Once you've installed the Cosmic JavaScript SDK and have the necessary API keys, initiate the Cosmic instance within the Astro project. Designing queries to fetch specific content types or items will be instrumental. As a quick test, create a simple Astro component to display the fetched data.

Place the functions to fetch Cosmic content in a file called `cosmic.js`. Place this file inside of the `src/lib` folder in your project. Place the following function inside of this file which then can be utilized in Astro components.

```js
// src/lib/cosmic.js
import { createBucketClient } from '@cosmicjs/sdk'

const cosmic = createBucketClient({
  bucketSlug: import.meta.env.PUBLIC_COSMIC_BUCKET_SLUG,
  readKey: import.meta.env.PUBLIC_COSMIC_READ_KEY
})

export async function getAllPosts() {
  const data = await cosmic.objects
    .find({
      type: 'posts'
    })
    .props('title,slug,metadata,created_at')
  return data.objects
}
```

This function utilizes the chaining method `.find` from the Cosmic SDK. here, `.props` is used to fetch the desired metadata from the Object in Cosmic. Read more about [queries in the Cosmic documentation](https://www.cosmicjs.com/docs/api/queries).

The following example, shows fetching a list of blog posts from Cosmic directly inside an Astro component.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import Card from '../components/Card.astro'
import { getAllPosts } from '../lib/cosmic'

const data = await getAllPosts()
---

<section>
  <ul class="grid gap-8 md:grid-cols-2">
    {
      data.map((post) => (
        <Card
          title={post.title}
          href={post.slug}
          body={post.metadata.excerpt}
          tags={post.metadata.tags.map((tag) => tag)}
        />
      ))
    }
  </ul>
</section>
```

[View source code for the Card component](https://github.com/cosmicjs/simple-astro-blog/blob/main/src/components/Card.astro)

## Building a Blog with Astro and Cosmic

Now that we’ve gone through the setup of Cosmic within an Astro project, we’re ready to create a blog to further our understanding of this integration.

### Setting up content in Cosmic

The content structure is the backbone of our blog. Within Cosmic, we will create a content model tailored for your blog posts, defining fields like title, excerpt, content, image, and more. Let’s start by creating a new **Object Type** in Cosmic called **posts**. To do this, look for Object Types in the sidebar navigation, and click the **plus icon**.

Our posts Object Type will be set to “Multiple”, because we will have several of them. Add the singular name “post”, and click “Next” to move to the Content model settings.

On the right hand side, there are several Metafields we can select from to build our Content model. Click and drag these 5 Metafields onto your Content model and name them accordingly:

1. **Text input** - Author
2. **Image** - Cover Image
3. **Repeater** - Tags
    - **Text input** - Title
4. **Text area** - Excerpt  
5. **Rich Text** - Content

Once you’ve added these Metafields, click the “Next” button in the top right. We don’t need to add any additional settings, so you can click “Save” and we can move on to create our first Blog Post. Go ahead and populate each field with some content.

### Displaying a List of Blog Posts in Astro

With the blog data ready in Cosmic, the next step is showcasing it in Astro. By integrating the [data-fetching method](#fetching-data-from-cosmic) we set up earlier, we can render each blog post, creating a dynamic list of them for site visitors.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import Card from '../components/Card.astro'
import { getAllPosts } from '../lib/cosmic'

const data = await getAllPosts()
---

<section>
  <ul class="grid gap-8 md:grid-cols-2">
    {
      data.map((post) => (
        <Card
          title={post.title}
          href={post.slug}
          body={post.metadata.excerpt}
          tags={post.metadata.tags.map((tag) => tag)}
        />
      ))
    }
  </ul>
</section>
```

### Generating Individual Blog Posts with Astro

For a more detailed view, each blog post needs its dedicated page. We can implement routing within Astro to navigate to individual blog URLs. Through Astro's dynamic rendering capabilities, each blog URL will correspond to its respective Object **slug** from Cosmic.

Now, we will fetch our Blog Posts using the same function `getAllPosts()` as we used before, however, this time we will execute the function inside of `getStaticPaths()` . This function is called at build time and generates and renders all of your Blog Posts at once.

To access our data from Cosmic, we return each post inside of our `Astro.props` . This allows us to use that data within the HTML template portion of our component and render each page.

In our HTML markup, we access the various data from Cosmic, such as the post title, cover image, and the rich text content. By using [set&colon;html](/en/reference/directives-reference/#sethtml), the rich text content from Cosmic is parsed and rendered into HTML elements on our page.

```astro
---
// src/pages/blog/[slug].astro
import { getAllPosts } from '../../lib/cosmic'
import { Image } from 'astro:assets'

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const data = (await getAllPosts()) || []

  return data.map((post) => {
    return {
      params: { slug: post.slug },
      props: { post }
    }
  })
}

const { post } = Astro.props
---

<article class="mx-auto max-w-screen-md pt-20">
  <section class="border-b pb-8">
    <h1 class="text-4xl font-bold">{post.title}</h1>
    <div class="my-4"></div>
    <span class="text-sm font-semibold">{post.metadata.author?.title}</span>
  </section>
  {
    post.metadata.cover_image && (
      <Image
        src={post.metadata.cover_image.imgix_url}
        format="webp"
        width={1200}
        height={675}
        aspectRatio={16 / 9}
        quality={50}
        alt={`Cover image for the blog ${post.title}`}
        class={'my-12 rounded-md shadow-lg'}
      />
    )
  }
  <div set:html={post.metadata.content} />
</article>
```

### Publishing your site

To deploy your website, visit the [deployment guides](/en/guides/deploy/) and follow the instructions for your preferred hosting provider.

#### Rebuild on Cosmic content updates

To set up webhooks in Cosmic, navigate to **settings** in the top navigation bar, then to **webhooks** in the left sidebar navigation. Add the URL endpoint from Vercel to Cosmic, and select the Object Type you would like to trigger the webhook. Click “Add webhook” to save it. Now whenever you make content updates or new Objects to the Object Type selected, the deploy hook will trigger a redeploy of your website on Vercel.

##### Netlify

To set up a webhook in Netlify:

1. Go to your site dashboard and click on **Build & deploy**.
2. Under the **Continuous Deployment** tab, find the **Build hooks** section and click on **Add build hook**.
3. Provide a name for your webhook and select the branch you want to trigger the build on. Click on **Save** and copy the generated URL.

##### Vercel

To set up a webhook in Vercel:

1. Go to your project dashboard and click on **Settings**.
2. Under the **Git** tab, find the **Deploy Hooks** section.
3. Provide a name for your webhook and the branch you want to trigger the build on. Click **Add** and copy the generated URL.
