src/content/docs/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-jekyll.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating from Jekyll
description: Tips for migrating an existing Jekyll project to Astro
type: migration
stub: true
framework: Jekyll
i18nReady: true
---

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) is a static site generator built on Ruby.

## Key Similarities between Jekyll and Astro

Jekyll and Astro share some similarities that will help you migrate your project:

- Both Jekyll and Astro are static-site generators, commonly used to create blogs.

- Both Jekyll and Astro allow you to [write your content in Markdown and HTML](/en/guides/content/). Jekyll and Astro both provide some special frontmatter YAML properties for page layout and unpublished draft posts. You can continue to use your existing Markdown files in Astro.

- Both Jekyll and Astro use [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/) for creating pages from your blog posts. Astro provides a [special `src/pages/` directory for all pages and posts](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#srcpages). Jekyll uses a similar special folder called `_posts/` for your Markdown blog posts, however your site pages can exist elsewhere. Creating new blog posts should feel familiar.


## Key Differences between Jekyll and Astro

When you rebuild your Jekyll site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- As Jekyll is primarily a blogging platform, several blog features are built-in that you may have to build yourself in Astro. Or, choose a [blog starter template theme](https://astro.build/themes?search=&categories%5B%5D=blog) that includes these features. For example, Jekyll has built-in support for tags and categories which you will find in several Astro blog themes, but is not included in a minimal Astro project.

- Jekyll uses Liquid templates for reusable layout elements and templating. Astro uses JSX-like [`.astro` files for templating and components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/). Any `.astro` file can be a component, a layout or an entire page, and can import and render any other Astro components. You can also build using [other UI framework components (e.g. React, Svelte, Vue, Solid)](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) as well as content or metadata from [other files in your project](/en/guides/imports/), such as Markdown or MDX.


## Switch from Jekyll to Astro

To convert a Jekyll blog to Astro, start with our blog theme starter template, or explore more community blog themes in our [theme showcase](https://astro.build/themes/).

You can pass a `--template` argument to the `create astro` command to start a new Astro project with one of our official starters. Or, you can [start a new project from any existing Astro repository on GitHub](/en/install/auto/#starter-templates).

  <PackageManagerTabs>
    <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```shell
    npm create astro@latest -- --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```shell
    pnpm create astro@latest --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```shell
    yarn create astro --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
  </PackageManagerTabs>

Bring your existing Markdown files as content to [create Markdown pages](/en/guides/markdown-content/), using an [Astro Markdown layout](/en/core-concepts/layouts/#markdownmdx-layouts) instead of a Liquid template. 

Much of your existing HTML page content can be converted into [Astro pages](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/), and you will additionally be able to [use variables, JSX-like expressions and component imports directly in your HTML templating](/en/core-concepts/astro-syntax/#jsx-like-expressions).

Astro does not have a `permalink` property that accepts placeholders. You may need to read more about [Astro's page routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/) if you want to keep your existing URL structure. Or, consider [setting redirects at a host like Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/).

To convert other types of sites, such as a portfolio or documentation site, see more official starter templates on [astro.new](https://astro.new). You'll find a link to each project's GitHub repository, as well as one-click links to open a working project in StackBlitz, CodeSandbox and Gitpod online development environments.

## Community Resources

- Add your own!

Commit message:

Link a blog post about migration from Jekyll

src/content/docs/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-jekyll.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating from Jekyll
description: Tips for migrating an existing Jekyll project to Astro
type: migration
stub: true
framework: Jekyll
i18nReady: true
---

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) is a static site generator built on Ruby.

## Key Similarities between Jekyll and Astro

Jekyll and Astro share some similarities that will help you migrate your project:

- Both Jekyll and Astro are static-site generators, commonly used to create blogs.

- Both Jekyll and Astro allow you to [write your content in Markdown and HTML](/en/guides/content/). Jekyll and Astro both provide some special frontmatter YAML properties for page layout and unpublished draft posts. You can continue to use your existing Markdown files in Astro.

- Both Jekyll and Astro use [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/) for creating pages from your blog posts. Astro provides a [special `src/pages/` directory for all pages and posts](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#srcpages). Jekyll uses a similar special folder called `_posts/` for your Markdown blog posts, however your site pages can exist elsewhere. Creating new blog posts should feel familiar.


## Key Differences between Jekyll and Astro

When you rebuild your Jekyll site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- As Jekyll is primarily a blogging platform, several blog features are built-in that you may have to build yourself in Astro. Or, choose a [blog starter template theme](https://astro.build/themes?search=&categories%5B%5D=blog) that includes these features. For example, Jekyll has built-in support for tags and categories which you will find in several Astro blog themes, but is not included in a minimal Astro project.

- Jekyll uses Liquid templates for reusable layout elements and templating. Astro uses JSX-like [`.astro` files for templating and components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/). Any `.astro` file can be a component, a layout or an entire page, and can import and render any other Astro components. You can also build using [other UI framework components (e.g. React, Svelte, Vue, Solid)](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) as well as content or metadata from [other files in your project](/en/guides/imports/), such as Markdown or MDX.


## Switch from Jekyll to Astro

To convert a Jekyll blog to Astro, start with our blog theme starter template, or explore more community blog themes in our [theme showcase](https://astro.build/themes/).

You can pass a `--template` argument to the `create astro` command to start a new Astro project with one of our official starters. Or, you can [start a new project from any existing Astro repository on GitHub](/en/install/auto/#starter-templates).

  <PackageManagerTabs>
    <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```shell
    npm create astro@latest -- --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```shell
    pnpm create astro@latest --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```shell
    yarn create astro --template blog
    ```
    </Fragment>
  </PackageManagerTabs>

Bring your existing Markdown files as content to [create Markdown pages](/en/guides/markdown-content/), using an [Astro Markdown layout](/en/core-concepts/layouts/#markdownmdx-layouts) instead of a Liquid template. 

Much of your existing HTML page content can be converted into [Astro pages](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/), and you will additionally be able to [use variables, JSX-like expressions and component imports directly in your HTML templating](/en/core-concepts/astro-syntax/#jsx-like-expressions).

Astro does not have a `permalink` property that accepts placeholders. You may need to read more about [Astro's page routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/) if you want to keep your existing URL structure. Or, consider [setting redirects at a host like Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/).

To convert other types of sites, such as a portfolio or documentation site, see more official starter templates on [astro.new](https://astro.new). You'll find a link to each project's GitHub repository, as well as one-click links to open a working project in StackBlitz, CodeSandbox and Gitpod online development environments.

## Community Resources

- Blog Post: [Back to the Future: Our Tech Blog's Transition from Jekyll to Astro](https://alasco.tech/2023/09/06/migrating-to-astro/).
