---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: About this Tutorial
description: How to get started with the "Build your first Astro blog" tutorial.
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Box from '~/components/tutorial/Box.astro';
---
## What Background knowledge do I need?

If you have some basic familiarity with **HTML**, **Markdown**, **CSS**, and a little **JavaScript**, then you're totally good to go! But no worries, you'll be able to complete the entire tutorial just by following the instructions.

## Is this tutorial for me?

Yes! This tutorial is for everyone!

**Newer to web dev?** You can use [Unit 1](/en/tutorial/1-setup/) to make sure you have the development tools and online accounts you'll need to complete the tutorial. It will walk you through creating a new Astro project, storing it on GitHub and deploying to Netlify.

**Ready to jump right into code?** If can [create a new Astro project](/en/install/auto/) and deploy it to the web on your own, you can skip ahead to [Unit 2](/en/tutorial/2-pages/) and start making new pages.

### Do I have to go through the lessons in order?

This tutorial is meant to be followed in order, starting with creating and immediately deploying to the web an empty Astro project that you'll keep improving as you go. 

Each unit builds on code used in the last lesson and assumes that you have completed the earlier lessons.

### Do I _really_ have to go through the lessons in order?

We hear you! The beginning of each unit has an embedded StackBlitz with the current state of the project. 

If you want to dive in partway through, open the StackBlitz in your browser and join us along the path.

To help you see at a glance what's in each unit, individual pages start with a list of what you'll cover, and end with a checklist of new tasks you should be able to complete.  

## Why is there green in the right sidebar?

At the end of each page, you'll find a clickable checklist of tasks you should now be able to do.

Check these items off to see your progress in the tutorial navigation sidebar. (This is only set in your browser's local storage, and is not available elsewhere. No data is sent to, nor stored by Astro.) 

## What's all the extra stuff on the page?

In addition to the steps to complete your project, there are opportunities to test your knowledge along the way and links to further resources. These are not required, but may help solidify some of the core Astro concepts.

## What if I need help, or want to learn more about Astro?

Our [friendly Astro Discord server](https://astro.build/chat) is the place to be! 

Hop into the support forum channel to ask questions, or say hi and chat in `#general` or `#off-topic`.

## Where can I leave feedback about this tutorial?

This tutorial is a project of our Docs team. You can find us on Discord in the `#docs` channel, or file issues to the [Docs repo on GitHub](https://withastro/astro/docs/issues). 

## Before you go

<Box icon="check-list">
### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist>
- [ ] I'm ready to build this thing!
</Checklist>
</Box>
