---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Prepare your development environment and online accounts
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
---

<Goals>
  - learned what background programming knowledge you will need to get started building with Astro
  - chosen and installed any tools that you will use to build your Astro website
  - set up the necessary online accounts to deploy your site to the web
</Goals>

This tutorial is designed to be accessible to new web developers, as well as devs who are simply new to Astro. It assumes some basic familiarity with **HTML**, **Markdown**, **CSS**, and a little **JavaScript**. But, you will be able to learn a lot of what you need to know during the tutorial itself!

:::tip[work in an online code editor]
You can also complete this tutorial using a web browser **instead of installing any local software**! You can access both the command line and a code editor together in a cloud development environment like [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com), [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) or [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io). See [instructions for setting up a working environment on StackBlitz](/en/tutorial/0-introduction/1/#using-stackblitz) to complete the tutorial in a web browser.
:::

## Development Tools Needed

### Terminal

You will use the **command line (terminal)** to create your Astro project and to run key commands to build, develop, and test your site.

You can access the command line through a local terminal program for your operating system. Common applications include **Terminal** (MacOS/Linux), **Command Prompt** (Windows), and **Termux** (Android). One of these will probably already be on your machine. 

You will also need to have **Node.js** installed. To check to see whether you already have a compatible version (v.14.18.0, or v16.12.0 or higher) installed: 

1. Launch your terminal and type the following into the command line:

    ```sh
    node -v
    ```

2. If necessary, follow the instructions to [install Node.js](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) via the command line.

### Code Editor

Additionally, you will need to download and install a **code editor** to write your code. We will use **VS Code** in this tutorial, but you can use any editor for your operating system.

1. [Download and install VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/#alt-downloads) or another code editor of your choice. 


### Source Control

Many software projects use `git`, a version control system to track changes in a project over time. In this tutorial, you will use a free **online git provider** and will not need to know how to use git commands in the terminal. All git actions in this tutorial will be performed through menu items in your code editor and will sync your **repository** (files and version history) to the cloud. This tutorial will use **GitHub** for online source control, but you are welcome to use your preferred online git provider.

1. Create a free account at [GitHub](https://github.com).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your account, and any projects you create at `https://github.com/username`

### Continuous Build and Deployment
Once your project is stored online, you will connect your repository to a free **web host** to build and deploy your site live on the web every time you commit a change to your code. This tutorial will use **Netlify**, but you are welcome to use your preferred hosting service for deploying your site to the internet.

1. Create a free account at [Netlify](https://netlify.com).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your dashboard and any sites you create at `https://app.netlify.com/teams/username`
    
## Using StackBlitz

To complete this tutorial in a web browser, you will need three online accounts that will work together to store, develop, and publish your site to the web.


### Storing your Project

Many software projects use `git`, a version control system to track changes in a project over time. In this tutorial, you will use **GitHub.com**, a free online git provider and will not need to know how to use git commands in the terminal. All git actions in this tutorial will be performed through StackBlitz menu items and will sync your **repository** (files and version history) to the cloud.

1. Create a free account at [GitHub](https://github.com).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your account, and any projects you create at `https://github.com/<username>`
    
### Developing your site

1. Sign in to [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com) using your GitHub credentials. This site will provide you with a **code editor** (an alternative to locally-installed software like VSCode) where you will edit your files and a **terminal pane** for running server commands.


### Publishing your site
Once your project is stored online, you will connect your GitHub repository to a free **web host** to build and deploy your site live on the web every time you commit a change to your code. This tutorial will use **Netlify**, but you are welcome to use your preferred hosting service for deploying your site to the internet.

1. Create a free account at [Netlify](https://netlify.com) (or your preferred hosting service).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your dashboard and any sites you create at `https://app.netlify.com/teams/username`


## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with **Netlify**, **VS Code** and **GitHub**:

1. || **VS Code** || is a code editor, where I will make changes to my project files and their content.
2. || **GitHub** || is an online storage provider for my repository.
3. || **Netlify** || is a web host, for deploying my website to the internet at a unique web address.

### Checklist for moving on

#### Prerequisites
<Checklist key="prerequisites">
- [ ] I have some basic familiarity with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
</Checklist>

#### Tools
<Checklist key="tools">
- [ ] I can access the command line via an application like Terminal (MacOS/Linux) or Command Prompt (Windows)
- [ ] I have Node.js `v14.18.0`, `v16.12.0`, or higher installed
- [ ] I have a code editor (e.g. VS Code) locally installed
<Fragment slot="alternative">
- [ ] I have created an account with an online cloud development environment like StackBlitz.
</Fragment>
</Checklist>

#### Accounts
<Checklist key="accounts">
- [ ] I have an account with an online git provider like GitHub.
- [ ] I have an account with an online hosting service like Netlify.
</Checklist>

### Resources

- <p>[FreeCodeCamp.org](https://freecodecamp.org) <Badge>external</Badge> — a free educational site with full courses or quick refreshers in HTML, CSS, JS and more.</p>
