src/content/docs/en/editor-setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Editor Setup
description: Set up your editor to build with Astro.
i18nReady: true
---
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

Customize your code editor to improve the Astro developer experience and unlock new features.

## VS Code

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a popular code editor for web developers, built by Microsoft. The VS Code engine also powers popular in-browser code editors like [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) and [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/).

Astro works with any code editor. However, VS Code is our recommended editor for Astro projects. We maintain an official [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) that unlocks several key features and developer experience improvements for Astro projects.

- Syntax highlighting for `.astro` files.
- TypeScript type information for `.astro` files.
- [VS Code Intellisense](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/intellisense) for code completion, hints and more.

To get started, install the [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) today.

📚 See how to [set up TypeScript](/en/guides/typescript/) in your Astro project.

## JetBrains IDEs

Initial support for Astro landed in WebStorm 2023.1. You can install the official plugin through [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/20959-astro) or by searching for "Astro" in the IDE's Plugins tab. This plugin includes features like syntax highlighting, code completion, and formatting, and plans to add even more advanced features in the future. It is also available to all other [JetBrains IDEs with JavaScript support](https://www.jetbrains.com/products/#lang=js&type=ide).

JetBrains' upcoming [Fleet IDE](https://www.jetbrains.com/fleet/) includes language server support and will be able to use the official Astro tooling.

## Other Code Editors

Our amazing community maintains several extensions for other popular editors, including:

- [VS Code Extension on Open VSX](https://open-vsx.org/extension/astro-build/astro-vscode) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="accent">Official</Badge></span> - The official Astro VS Code Extension, available on the Open VSX registry for open platforms like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/)
- [Nova Extension](https://extensions.panic.com/extensions/sciencefidelity/sciencefidelity.astro/) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting and code completion for Astro inside of Nova
- [Vim Plugin](https://github.com/wuelnerdotexe/vim-astro) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting, indentation, and code folding support for Astro inside of Vim or Neovim
- Neovim [LSP](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#astro) and [TreeSitter](https://github.com/virchau13/tree-sitter-astro) Plugins <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting, treesitter parsing, and code completion for Astro inside of Neovim

## In-Browser Editors

In addition to local editors, Astro also runs well on in-browser hosted editors, including:

- [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/) and [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/) - online editors that run in your browser, with built-in syntax highlighting support for `.astro` files. No installation or configuration required!
- [GitHub.dev](https://github.dev/) - allows you to install the Astro VS Code extension as a [web extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-guides/web-extensions), which gives you access to only some of the full extension features. Currently, only syntax highlighting is supported.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) - a full dev environment in the cloud that can install the official Astro VS Code Extension from Open VSX.

## Other tools

### ESLint

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a popular linter for JavaScript and JSX. For Astro support, [a community maintained plugin](https://github.com/ota-meshi/eslint-plugin-astro) can be installed.

See [the project's User Guide](https://ota-meshi.github.io/eslint-plugin-astro/user-guide/) for more information on how to install and set up ESLint for your project.

### Stylelint

[Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) is a popular linter for CSS. [A community maintained Stylelint configuration](https://github.com/ota-meshi/stylelint-config-html) provides Astro support. 

Installation instructions, editor integration, and additional information can be found in the project's README.

### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is a popular formatter for JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and more. If you're using the [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) or [the Astro language server within another editor](#other-code-editors), code formatting with Prettier is included.

To add support for formatting `.astro` files outside of the editor (e.g. CLI) or inside editors that don't support our editor tooling, install [the official Astro Prettier plugin](https://github.com/withastro/prettier-plugin-astro).

To get started, first install Prettier and the plugin:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install --save-dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add -D prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add --dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

Prettier will then automatically detect the plugin and use it to process `.astro` files when you run it:

```shell
prettier --write .
```

See the [Prettier plugin's README](https://github.com/withastro/prettier-plugin-astro/blob/main/README.md) for more information about its supported options, how to set up Prettier inside VS Code, and more.

:::caution[Using with pnpm]
Due to upstream issues inside Prettier, the plugin will not be automatically detected when using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/). In order to make it find the plugin, the following parameter needs to be added when running Prettier:

```shell
prettier --write . --plugin=prettier-plugin-astro
```

Additional settings are also required when using Prettier inside VS Code. See the plugin's README for more information.
:::

Commit message:

Adds configuring instructions for Emacs

src/content/docs/en/editor-setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Editor Setup
description: Set up your editor to build with Astro.
i18nReady: true
---
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

Customize your code editor to improve the Astro developer experience and unlock new features.

## VS Code

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a popular code editor for web developers, built by Microsoft. The VS Code engine also powers popular in-browser code editors like [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) and [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/).

Astro works with any code editor. However, VS Code is our recommended editor for Astro projects. We maintain an official [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) that unlocks several key features and developer experience improvements for Astro projects.

- Syntax highlighting for `.astro` files.
- TypeScript type information for `.astro` files.
- [VS Code Intellisense](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/intellisense) for code completion, hints and more.

To get started, install the [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) today.

📚 See how to [set up TypeScript](/en/guides/typescript/) in your Astro project.

## JetBrains IDEs

Initial support for Astro landed in WebStorm 2023.1. You can install the official plugin through [JetBrains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/20959-astro) or by searching for "Astro" in the IDE's Plugins tab. This plugin includes features like syntax highlighting, code completion, and formatting, and plans to add even more advanced features in the future. It is also available to all other [JetBrains IDEs with JavaScript support](https://www.jetbrains.com/products/#lang=js&type=ide).

JetBrains' upcoming [Fleet IDE](https://www.jetbrains.com/fleet/) includes language server support and will be able to use the official Astro tooling.

## Other Code Editors

Our amazing community maintains several extensions for other popular editors, including:

- [VS Code Extension on Open VSX](https://open-vsx.org/extension/astro-build/astro-vscode) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="accent">Official</Badge></span> - The official Astro VS Code Extension, available on the Open VSX registry for open platforms like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/)
- [Nova Extension](https://extensions.panic.com/extensions/sciencefidelity/sciencefidelity.astro/) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting and code completion for Astro inside of Nova
- [Vim Plugin](https://github.com/wuelnerdotexe/vim-astro) <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting, indentation, and code folding support for Astro inside of Vim or Neovim
- Neovim [LSP](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#astro) and [TreeSitter](https://github.com/virchau13/tree-sitter-astro) Plugins <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - Provides syntax highlighting, treesitter parsing, and code completion for Astro inside of Neovim
- Emacs <span style="margin: 0.25em;"><Badge variant="neutral">Community</Badge></span> - [See instructions](https://medium.com/@jrmjrm/configuring-emacs-and-eglot-to-work-with-astro-language-server-9408eb709ab0) for Configuring Emacs and Eglot to work with Astro

## In-Browser Editors

In addition to local editors, Astro also runs well on in-browser hosted editors, including:

- [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/) and [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/) - online editors that run in your browser, with built-in syntax highlighting support for `.astro` files. No installation or configuration required!
- [GitHub.dev](https://github.dev/) - allows you to install the Astro VS Code extension as a [web extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-guides/web-extensions), which gives you access to only some of the full extension features. Currently, only syntax highlighting is supported.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) - a full dev environment in the cloud that can install the official Astro VS Code Extension from Open VSX.

## Other tools

### ESLint

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a popular linter for JavaScript and JSX. For Astro support, [a community maintained plugin](https://github.com/ota-meshi/eslint-plugin-astro) can be installed.

See [the project's User Guide](https://ota-meshi.github.io/eslint-plugin-astro/user-guide/) for more information on how to install and set up ESLint for your project.

### Stylelint

[Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) is a popular linter for CSS. [A community maintained Stylelint configuration](https://github.com/ota-meshi/stylelint-config-html) provides Astro support. 

Installation instructions, editor integration, and additional information can be found in the project's README.

### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is a popular formatter for JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and more. If you're using the [Astro VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=astro-build.astro-vscode) or [the Astro language server within another editor](#other-code-editors), code formatting with Prettier is included.

To add support for formatting `.astro` files outside of the editor (e.g. CLI) or inside editors that don't support our editor tooling, install [the official Astro Prettier plugin](https://github.com/withastro/prettier-plugin-astro).

To get started, first install Prettier and the plugin:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
  npm install --save-dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
  pnpm add -D prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
  yarn add --dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

Prettier will then automatically detect the plugin and use it to process `.astro` files when you run it:

```shell
prettier --write .
```

See the [Prettier plugin's README](https://github.com/withastro/prettier-plugin-astro/blob/main/README.md) for more information about its supported options, how to set up Prettier inside VS Code, and more.

:::caution[Using with pnpm]
Due to upstream issues inside Prettier, the plugin will not be automatically detected when using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/). In order to make it find the plugin, the following parameter needs to be added when running Prettier:

```shell
prettier --write . --plugin=prettier-plugin-astro
```

Additional settings are also required when using Prettier inside VS Code. See the plugin's README for more information.
:::
