---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Storing and Deploying your Project
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
---

<Goals>
  - stored your project repository on GitHub
  - added your GitHub repository as a new Netlify app
  - deployed your Astro site to the web
</Goals>

## Store your repository on GitHub

🖥️ If you are **developing locally**, then you will **import your local project on GitHub's website**. Your files will "live" on your machine, and you will open VS Code when you want to work on your project. You will be managing two copies of your work, and you are responsible for keeping GitHub up-to-date and in sync with your local copy.

🌐 If you are **developing in the cloud**, you will **export your forked site to a new repository on GitHub**. Your files will "live" in your online account, and you will open your workspace from your dashboard every time you work on your project. You will be managing two copies of your work, and you are responsible for keeping GitHub up-to-date and in sync with your cloud copy.


### Create a repository on GitHub

#### 🖥️ Developing locally

Although there are a few ways to get your local code stored in GitHub, we will choose a method that does not require using git in the command line.

1. Log in to GitHub.com in a browser and click the <kbd>+</kbd> in the upper right of the screen to make a new repository. 

2. Choose a name for your repository. This does not have to be the same name as your project.

3. You will be presented with options, but you do not need to change any of the defaults. Scroll down and click the button to <kbd>Create Repository</kbd>.

4. You will be presented with various setup next steps, but you won't need to use any of them. You can now exit this page without doing anything.

#### 🌐 Developing in the cloud

If you have forked an Astro starter template on StackBlitz or CodeSandbox, you will be able to create a GitHub repository right from your project workspace, without visiting GitHub.com.

**CodeSandbox**: Press the GitHub icon in the sidebar, enter a new name for your repository, and click <kbd>Create Repository</kbd>. This will automatically open a new sandbox that is now synced to the GitHub repository. You will once again have to fork *this* sandbox in order to make changes, because you cannot make direct changes to a GitHub sandbox directly. Read more about [using GitHub immutable sandboxes](https://codesandbox.io/docs/git).

**StackBlitz**: Press the <kbd>Connect Repository</kbd> button at the top of your list of files, enter a new name for your repository, and click <kbd>Create repo & push</kbd>.


### Commit your code to GitHub

#### 🖥️ Developing locally

In the last section, you made a change to your page's content. This means that your project files have changed, and VS Code should show a number on top of the "Source" menu icon. This source tab is where you will reguarly go to send your files to GitHub. 

[IMAGE OF VS CODE LEFT NAVIGATION, WITH CHANGES]

1. Click the Source Control tab in your VS Code to see a list of files that have changed. 

2. Click the <kbd>•••</kbd> "3 dots" menu above the commit message and choose <kbd>Remote</kbd> > <kbd>Add Remote</kbd>.

3. Select <kbd>Add remote from GitHub</kbd>.

4. You may need to authorize the GitHub extension to log in to GitHub and see your repositories. Follow the steps to allow this, then return to VS Code.

5. Now, when you try to <kbd>Add a remote from GitHub</kbd> again, you should see a list of all your repositories on GitHub. Choose the one you created for this project.

6. At the top of this menu pane, there will be a place to enter a **commit message** (description of your file changes). Type in `initial commit to GitHub` and press the <kbd>Commit</kbd> button to commit these changes.

7. You may see a message telling you that you have no "staged" commits, and asking you if you want to stage them. Click <kbd>Always</kbd> and continue.

8. Lastly, the list of changed files should be replaced with a <kbd>Publish</kbd> button. Click this to send your committed changes to GitHub.

#### 🌐 Developing in the cloud

As you make changes to your project, you will see a visual indication that some files are no longer in sync with your repository at GitHub.com.

**CodeSandbox**: When there are changes to be committed back to GitHub, the GitHub tab will display a notification. When you first click on the GitHub tab in CodeSandbox, you will be asked to "Link" your sandbox back to your repository. 

After that, clicking on the GitHub tab will list any files with changes that have not been synced back to your GitHub repository. It will allow you to enter a commit message (summary) describing your changes or intention, and an optional description. Make sure that "Commit directly to the main branch" is selected, then press "Commit changes."

**StackBlitz**: When there are changes to be committed back to GitHub, a "Commit" button will appear at the top left of your workspace. Clicking on this will allow you to enter a commit message, describing your changes or intention. Click "Commit" to send these changes back to GitHub and update your repository.


#### 🖥️ 🌐 Verify your work

To verify that your project is successfully stored on GitHub, visit GitHub.com again in a browser window and look under your account for a list of your repositories. Choose the new one you created, and verify that it contains your Astro project files.

## Deploy your website on Netlify

Here, you will import your Astro project from GitHub. Netlify will use that project to create a live, public website. 

### Create a new Netlify site

1. Log in to https://app.netlify.com/.

2. Click <kbd>Add new site</kbd> > <kbd>Import an existing project</kbd>.

    You will be asked to connect to a Git provider. Choose GitHub (or your chosen git provider) and, if necessary, follow the steps onscreen to authenticate your GitHub account. Then, choose the new GitHub repository you made to store your `astro-site` project from the list provided.

3. At the final step, Netlify will show you your app's site settings. The defaults should be correct for your Astro project, so you can scroll down and click <kbd>Deploy site</kbd>.

Congratulations, you have an Astro website!

### Make changes locally 

On your Site overview page, you will see your randomly-generated project name, and your website URL in the form `https://project-name-123456.netlify.app`. You can change your project name to something more memorable, and this will automatically update your URL.

### Visit your updated website

Click on the URL in your site settings, or type it in to a browser window to view your new website.

## Before you go
### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="deploy">
- [ ] I have stored my Astro project in a repository on GitHub, and can see my files on GitHub.com
- [ ] My Astro website is available on the web at a `.netlify.app` URL
</Checklist>

### Resources

- <p>[A step-by-step guide to deploying on Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2016/09/29/a-step-by-step-guide-deploying-on-netlify/) <Badge>external</Badge></p>
