---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Starting a new working session
setup: |
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
---

## Goals

BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU WILL HAVE:
- opened your project on your computer, or in your cloud environment
- started the dev (development) server, if necessary
- opened a browser preview at `localhost:3000` or in your cloud environment


## Starting a local work session

If your project is not currently open and running in dev mode, open and start your project.

1. Open your astro project (e.g. `astro-site`) in your code editor (e.g. VS Code).
Make the terminal pane visible and you should see a command prompt, ready to run commands (e.g. `:~/astro-site$`)

2. Type and enter (run) the start command 
```sh
npm run dev
```
This will start the Astro dev server, and will prepare your code for viewing. While the dev server is running, your terminal will provide feedback such as which page it is rendering while you visit in the browser, and any error messages.

3. Check your browser preview by visiting `https://localhost:3000` in a browser tab.

This is where you can always view a live, updating preview of your website. Open this URL in a browser tab when you want to see how your code changes are rendered to the page. You may need to refresh the tab to see changes take effect.

## Starting a cloud session

If you are working on your project using a code editor in your web browser (e.g. CodeSandbox or StackBlitz), you will need to log in to your account in a browser tab and find your project.

1. Navigate to your dashboard and open your project repository:

**CodeSandbox**: fork your immuntable GitHub sandbox: https://codesandbox.io/dashboard/repositories

**StackBlitz**: open your recent project: https://stackblitz.com/dashboard


2. Wait for the project to load in dev mode

Your project should automatically run the Astro start command for you. 

(If not, or if you ever need to restart the dev server, you can type the start command `astro run dev` in your terminal pane.


3. Check your on-screen browser preview.

This is where you can always view a live, updated version of your website. You may need to refresh the browser preview to see changes take effect.

This preview window visits a URL from the online site you are using (e.g. `https://sdkelkk--github--3000.localwebcontainer.io/` or `https://dfewi.sse.codesandbox.io/`). 

When your project has finished loading, this will be a live preview of your project. You also have the option to copy this URL into a separate browser tab to view your preview at full size.


## Using the Astro dev server

While the Astro server is running in dev mode, you will NOT be able to run commands in your terminal window. Instead, this pane will give you feedback as you preview your site.

You can stop the dev server at any time and return to the command prompt by typing `CTRL+C`.

## Troubleshooting

Sometimes the dev server will stop on its own while you are working. If your live preview at `localhost:3000` or in your online editor preview stops working, go back to the terminal and restart the dev server by typing `npm run dev`.

## Before you go

### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist>
- [ ] I know how to open my project to start a working session, either locally or in an online Code Editor.
- [ ] I can start and stop the dev server, both when I first start working and if I run into trouble while working.
- [ ] I can view a preview of my website at `localhost:3000` or in my online code editor's preview pane.
</Checklist>
