---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: Store your repository online
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
  import PreCheck from '~/components/tutorial/PreCheck.astro';
---

<PreCheck>
  - put your project repository on GitHub
</PreCheck>

## Store your repository on GitHub

### Create a repository on GitHub

Although there are a few ways to get your local code stored in GitHub, this tutorial will guide you through a method that does not require using git in the command line. 

:::note
If you are already familiar with git, and have your own workflow, then create a new GitHub repository for your project using your preferred method. Skip ahead to ["Deploy your Website on Netlify"](#deploy-your-website-on-netlify)
:::

1. Log in to GitHub.com in a browser and click the <kbd>+</kbd> in the upper right of the screen to make a new repository. 

2. Choose a name for your repository. This does not have to be the same name as your project folder.

3. You will be presented with options, but you do not need to change any of the defaults. Scroll down and click the button to <kbd>Create Repository</kbd>.

4. You will be presented with various setup next steps, but you won't need to use any of them. You can now exit this page without doing anything.


### Commit your code to GitHub

In the last section, you made a change to your page's content. This means that your project files have changed, and VS Code should show a number on top of the "Source" menu icon. This source tab is where you will reguarly go to update your files on GitHub. 

[IMAGE OF VS CODE LEFT NAVIGATION, WITH CHANGES]

1. Click the Source Control tab in your VS Code to see a list of files that have changed. 

2. Click the <kbd>•••</kbd> "3 dots" menu above the commit message and choose <kbd>Remote</kbd> > <kbd>Add Remote</kbd>.

3. Select <kbd>Add remote from GitHub</kbd>. (You may need to authorize the GitHub extension to log in to GitHub and see your repositories. Follow the steps to allow this, then return to VS Code.)

4. You should see a list of all your repositories on GitHub. Choose the one you created for this project. You may also be asked to give this repository a local name. You can select any name you like.

5. At the top of the menu pane, there will be a place to enter a **commit message** (description of your file changes). Type in `initial commit to GitHub` and press the <kbd>Commit</kbd> button to commit these changes.

7. You may see a message telling you that you have no "staged" commits, and asking you if you want to stage them. Click <kbd>Always</kbd> and continue.

8. Lastly, the list of changed files should be replaced with a <kbd>Publish</kbd> button. Click this to send your committed changes to GitHub.


#### See your project on GitHub

To verify that your project is successfully stored on GitHub, visit GitHub.com again in a browser window and look under your account for a list of your repositories. Choose the new one you created, and verify that it contains your Astro project files.


## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

You want to update the home page of your website. Number the following steps in the correct order to explain how this happens:

|| &nbsp &nbsp 4 &nbsp &nbsp || Netlify will respond to any changes on GitHub, and will automatically re-build my website from the most recent version of my repository. Then, Netlify will deploy the updated version of my webiste at my URL.

|| &nbsp &nbsp 2 &nbsp &nbsp || I make changes to `index.astro` using my code editor and check the browser preview to make sure I can see the changes.

|| &nbsp &nbsp 1 &nbsp &nbsp || I open my project folder in my code editor and run Astro in dev mode to see a live preview of my changes.

|| &nbsp &nbsp 3 &nbsp &nbsp || I commit and push my changes to my repository stored on GitHub.


### Checklist for moving on

<Checklist key="deploy">
- [ ] I have stored my Astro project in a repository on GitHub.
- [ ] My Astro website is available on the web at a `.netlify.app` URL.
</Checklist>

### Resources

- <p>[A step-by-step guide to deploying on Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2016/09/29/a-step-by-step-guide-deploying-on-netlify/) <Badge>external</Badge></p>