---
layout: ~/layouts/TutorialLayout.astro
title: All the StackBlitz things for now.
setup: |
  import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';
  import Checklist from '~/components/Checklist.astro';
  import Goals from '~/components/tutorial/Goals.astro';
  import PreCheck from '~/components/tutorial/PreCheck.astro';
---

<PreCheck>
  - check the background programming knowledge you will need to get started building with Astro
  - install any tools that you will use to build your Astro website
</PreCheck>

:::tip[work in an online code editor]
You can also complete this tutorial using a web browser **instead of installing any local software**. You can access both the command line and a code editor together in a cloud development environment like [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com), [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) or [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io). 

Skip ahead to see [instructions for setting up a working environment on StackBlitz](/en/tutorial/0-introduction/2/#using-stackblitz) to complete the tutorial in a web browser.
:::


## Using StackBlitz

To complete this tutorial in a web browser, you will need three online accounts that will work together to store, develop, and publish your site to the web.


### Storing your Project

Many software projects use `git`, a version control system to track changes in a project over time. In this tutorial, you will use **GitHub.com**, a free online git provider and will not need to know how to use git commands in the terminal. All git actions in this tutorial will be performed through StackBlitz menu items and will sync your **repository** (files and version history) to the cloud.

1. Create a free account at [GitHub](https://github.com).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your account, and any projects you create at `https://github.com/<username>`
    
### Developing your site

1. Sign in to [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com) using your GitHub credentials. This site will provide you with a **code editor** (an alternative to locally-installed software like VSCode) where you will edit your files and a **terminal pane** for running server commands.


### Publishing your site
Once your project is stored online, you will connect your GitHub repository to a free **web host** to build and deploy your site live on the web every time you commit a change to your code. This tutorial will use **Netlify**, but you are welcome to use your preferred hosting service for deploying your site to the internet.

1. Create a free account at [Netlify](https://netlify.com) (or your preferred hosting service).

    Make a note of your username. You will view your dashboard and any sites you create at `https://app.netlify.com/teams/username`

:::tip[using stackblitz]
Instead of using the setup wizard, you will open a new project in your browser. Your project will automatically run in development mode and display a website preview.

**Follow the steps below, then skip all the way down to ["Edit Your Page"](#edit-your-page)**: 
1. Visit [stackblitz.com](https://stackblitz.com) and sign in with your GitHub account.
2. Visit [astro.new](https://astro.new) and click the button to open the "Empty Project" template in StackBlitz. (This will launch in StackBlitz.)
3. In the upper left of the StackBlitz editor window, click to "fork" the template (save to your own account dashboard).
4. Wait for the project to load, and you will see a live preview of the "Empty Project" starter.
:::

:::tip[using stackblitz]
If you have forked an Astro starter template on StackBlitz, you will be able to create a GitHub repository right from your project workspace, without visiting GitHub.com.

Press the <kbd>Connect Repository</kbd> button at the top of your list of files, enter a new name for your repository, and click <kbd>Create repo & push</kbd>. 

When you have changes to be committed back to GitHub, a "Commit" button will appear at the top left of your workspace. Clicking on this will allow you to enter a commit message, and update your repository.

SKip ahead to ["Deploy your Website on Netlify"](#deploy-your-website-on-netlify) to connect your GitHub repository and publish your site to the web.
:::


## Before you go

### Test your knowledge

Fill in the blanks with **Netlify**, **VS Code** and **GitHub**:

1. || **VS Code** || is a code editor, where I will make changes to my project files and their content.
2. || **GitHub** || is an online storage provider for my repository.
3. || **Netlify** || is a web host, for deploying my website to the internet at a unique web address.

### Checklist for moving on

#### Prerequisites
<Checklist key="prerequisites">
- [ ] I have some basic familiarity with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
</Checklist>

#### Tools
<Checklist key="tools">
- [ ] I can access the command line via an application like Terminal (MacOS/Linux) or Command Prompt (Windows)
- [ ] I have Node.js `v14.18.0`, `v16.12.0`, or higher installed
- [ ] I have a code editor (e.g. VS Code) locally installed
<Fragment slot="alternative">
- [ ] I have created an account with an online cloud development environment like StackBlitz.
</Fragment>
</Checklist>

#### Accounts
<Checklist key="accounts">
- [ ] I have an account with an online git provider like GitHub.
- [ ] I have an account with an online hosting service like Netlify.
</Checklist>

### Resources

- <p>[FreeCodeCamp.org](https://freecodecamp.org) <Badge>external</Badge> — a free educational site with full courses or quick refreshers in HTML, CSS, JS and more.</p>
