src/content/docs/en/reference/adapter-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Astro Adapter API
i18nReady: true
---
import Since from '~/components/Since.astro';


Astro is designed to make it easy to deploy to any cloud provider for SSR (server-side rendering). This ability is provided by __adapters__, which are [integrations](/en/reference/integrations-reference/). See the [SSR guide](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#adding-an-adapter) to learn how to use an existing adapter.

## What is an adapter

An adapter is a special kind of [integration](/en/reference/integrations-reference/) that provides an entrypoint for server-side rendering. An adapter does two things:

- Implements host-specific APIs for handling requests.
- Configures the build according to host conventions.

## Building an Adapter

An adapter is an [integration](/en/reference/integrations-reference/) and can do anything that an integration can do.

An adapter __must__ call the `setAdapter` API in the `astro:config:done` hook like so:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs"
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          supportedAstroFeatures: {
              staticOutput: 'stable'
          }  
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

The object passed into `setAdapter` is defined as:

```ts
interface AstroAdapter {
  name: string;
  serverEntrypoint?: string;
  exports?: string[];
  adapterFeatures: AstroAdapterFeatures;
  supportedAstroFeatures: AstroFeatureMap;

}

export interface AstroAdapterFeatures {
	/**
	 * Creates an edge function that will communicate with the Astro middleware.
	 */
	edgeMiddleware: boolean;
	/**
	 * SSR only. Each route becomes its own function/file.
	 */
	functionPerRoute: boolean;
}

export type SupportsKind = 'unsupported' | 'stable' | 'experimental' | 'deprecated';

export type AstroFeatureMap = {
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve static pages
   */
  staticOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve pages that are static or rendered via server
   */
  hybridOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve SSR pages
   */
  serverOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter can emit static assets
   */
  assets?: AstroAssetsFeature;
};

export interface AstroAssetsFeature {
  supportKind?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * Whether this adapter deploys files in an environment that is compatible with the library `sharp`
   */
  isSharpCompatible?: boolean;
  /**
   * Whether this adapter deploys files in an environment that is compatible with the library `squoosh`
   */
  isSquooshCompatible?: boolean;
}

```

The properties are:

* __name__: A unique name for your adapter, used for logging.
* __serverEntrypoint__: The entrypoint for server-side rendering.
* __exports__: An array of named exports when used in conjunction with `createExports` (explained below).
* __adapterFeatures__: An object that enables specific features that must be supported by the adapter. 
  These features will change the built output, and the adapter must implement the proper logic to handle the different output. 
* __supportedAstroFeatures__: A map of Astro built-in features. This allows Astro to determine which features an adapter is unable or unwilling to support so appropriate error messages can be provided.

### Server Entrypoint

Astro's adapter API attempts to work with any type of host, and gives a flexible way to conform to the host APIs.

#### Exports

Some serverless hosts expect you to export a function, such as `handler`:

```js
export function handler(event, context) {
  // ...
}
```

With the adapter API you achieve this by implementing `createExports` in your `serverEntrypoint`:

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';

export function createExports(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  const handler = (event, context) => {
    // ...
  };

  return { handler };
}
```

And then in your integration, where you call `setAdapter`, provide this name in `exports`:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          exports: ['handler'],
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

#### Start

Some hosts expect you to *start* the server yourselves, for example by listening to a port. For these types of hosts, the adapter API allows you to export a `start` function which will be called when the bundle script is run.

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';

export function start(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  addEventListener('fetch', event => {
    // ...
  });
}
```

#### `astro/app`

This module is used for rendering pages that have been prebuilt through `astro build`. Astro uses the standard [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) and [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) objects. Hosts that have a different API for request/response should convert to these types in their adapter.

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';
import http from 'http';

export function start(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  addEventListener('fetch', event => {
    event.respondWith(
      app.render(event.request)
    );
  });
}
```

The following methods are provided:

##### `app.render(request, routeData, locals)`

This method calls the Astro page that matches the request, renders it, and returns a Promise to a [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) object. This also works for API routes that do not render pages.

```js
const response = await app.render(request);
```

The method accepts a mandatory `request` argument, and two other optional arguments: [`routeData`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#routedata-type-reference) and [`locals`](/en/guides/middleware/#locals).

Provide a value for `routeData` if you already know the route to render. Doing so will bypass the internal call to [`app.match`](#appmatchrequest) to determine the route to render.

When  used, `locals` must be the third argument passed. You can pass `undefined` for `routeData` if you are not targeting a specific route.

The example below reads a header named `x-private-header`, attempts to parse it as an object and pass it to `locals`, which can then be passed to any [middleware function](/en/guides/middleware/).

```js
const privateHeader = request.headers.get("x-private-header");
let locals = {};
try {
    if (privateHeader) {
        locals = JSON.parse(privateHeader);
    }
} finally {
    const response = await app.render(request, undefined, locals);
}
```

##### `app.match(request)`

This method is used to determine if a request is matched by the Astro app's routing rules.

```js
if(app.match(request)) {
  const response = await app.render(request);
}
```

You can usually call `app.render(request)` without using `.match` because Astro handles 404s if you provide a `404.astro` file. Use `app.match(request)` if you want to handle 404s in a different way.

## Allow installation via `astro add`

[The `astro add` command](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-add) allows users to easily add integrations and adapters to their project. If you want _your_ adapter to be installable with this tool, **add `astro-adapter` to the `keywords` field in your `package.json`**:

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "keywords": ["astro-adapter"],
}
```

Once you [publish your adapter to npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-publish), running `astro add example` will install your package with any peer dependencies specified in your `package.json`. We will also instruct users to update their project config manually.


## Astro features

<Since v="3.0.0" />

Astro features are a way for an adapter to tell Astro whether they are able to support a feature, and also the adapter's level of support.  

When using these properties, Astro will:
- run specific validation; 
- emit contextual to the logs;

These operations are run based on the features supported or not supported, their level of support, and the configuration that the user uses.

The following configuration tells Astro that this adapter has experimental support for assets, but the adapter is not compatible with the built-in services Sharp and Squoosh:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-15}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          supportedAstroFeatures: {
            assets: {
              supportKind: "experimental",
              isSharpCompatible: false,
              isSquooshCompatible: false
            }
          }  
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Astro will log a **warning** to the terminal:

```
[@matthewp/my-adapter] The feature is experimental and subject to issues or changes.
```

and an error if the service used for assets is not compatible with the adapter:

```
[@matthewp/my-adapter] The currently selected adapter `@matthewp/my-adapter` is not compatible with the service "Sharp". Your project will NOT be able to build.
```

## Adapter features

A set of features that changes the output of the emitted files. When an adapter opts in to these features, they will get additional information inside specific hooks.

### `functionPerRoute`

This is a feature that is enabled when using SSR only. By default, Astro emits a single `entry.mjs` file, which is responsible for emitting the rendered page on each request.

When `functionPerRoute` is `true`, Astro will instead create a separate file for each route defined in the project. 
Each file emitted will only render one page. The pages will be emitted inside a `dist/pages/` directory, and the emitted files will keep the same file paths of the `src/pages/` directory.

Enable the feature by passing `true` to the adapter.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-11}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              functionPerRoute: true
          } 
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Then, consume the hook [`astro:build:ssr`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#astrobuildssr), which will give you an `entryPoints` object that maps a page route to the physical file emitted after the build.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={15-19}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              functionPerRoute: true
          } 
        });
      },

      'astro:build:ssr': ({ entryPoints }) => {
          for (const [route, entryFile] of entryPoints) {
              // do something with route and entryFile
          }
      }  
    },
  };
}
```

:::caution
The `entryFile` is of type `URL` and represents the physical path of the file in the file system. This means that the paths change based on the OS where the code runs. 
:::

#### Serverless environments

Setting `functionPerRoute: true` in a serverless environment creates a JavaScript file (handler) for each route. A handler might have different names based on your hosting platform: lambda, function, page, etc.

Each of these routes is subject to a [cold start](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/understanding-serverless-cold-start/) when the handler runs, which may cause some delay. This delay is influenced by different factors.

With `functionPerRoute: false`, there is only one single handler in charge of rendering all your routes. When this handler is first triggered, you will be subject to a cold start. Then, all other routes should function without delay. However, you will lose the benefit of code splitting that `functionPerRoute: true` provides.

:::note
It's important that you understand your hosting platform, and how it works, in order to choose the appropriate `functionPerRoute` configuration for your project.
:::

### `edgeMiddleware`

Defines whether any SSR middleware code will be bundled when built.
	
When enabled, this prevents middleware code from being bundled and imported by all pages during the build:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-11}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              edgeMiddleware: true
          } 
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Then, consume the hook [`astro:build:ssr`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#astrobuildssr), which will give you a `middlewareEntryPoint`, an `URL` to the physical file on the file system.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={15-19}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              edgeMiddleware: true
          } 
        });
      },

      'astro:build:ssr': ({ middlewareEntryPoint }) => {
          // remember to check if this property exits, it will be `undefined` if the adapter doesn't opt in to the feature
          if (middlewareEntryPoint) {
             createEdgeMiddleware(middlewareEntryPoint)
          }
      }  
    },
  };
}

function createEdgeMiddleware(middlewareEntryPoint) {
    // emit a new physical file using your bundler
}
```

Commit message:

Remove reference to deprecated build.split (#4463)
Co-authored-by: Elian ☕️ <hello@elian.codes>

src/content/docs/en/reference/adapter-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Astro Adapter API
i18nReady: true
---
import Since from '~/components/Since.astro';
import FileTree from '~/components/FileTree.astro';


Astro is designed to make it easy to deploy to any cloud provider for SSR (server-side rendering). This ability is provided by __adapters__, which are [integrations](/en/reference/integrations-reference/). See the [SSR guide](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#adding-an-adapter) to learn how to use an existing adapter.

## What is an adapter

An adapter is a special kind of [integration](/en/reference/integrations-reference/) that provides an entrypoint for server-side rendering. An adapter does two things:

- Implements host-specific APIs for handling requests.
- Configures the build according to host conventions.

## Building an Adapter

An adapter is an [integration](/en/reference/integrations-reference/) and can do anything that an integration can do.

An adapter __must__ call the `setAdapter` API in the `astro:config:done` hook like so:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs"
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          supportedAstroFeatures: {
              staticOutput: 'stable'
          }  
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

The object passed into `setAdapter` is defined as:

```ts
interface AstroAdapter {
  name: string;
  serverEntrypoint?: string;
  exports?: string[];
  adapterFeatures: AstroAdapterFeatures;
  supportedAstroFeatures: AstroFeatureMap;

}

export interface AstroAdapterFeatures {
	/**
	 * Creates an edge function that will communicate with the Astro middleware.
	 */
	edgeMiddleware: boolean;
	/**
	 * SSR only. Each route becomes its own function/file.
	 */
	functionPerRoute: boolean;
}

export type SupportsKind = 'unsupported' | 'stable' | 'experimental' | 'deprecated';

export type AstroFeatureMap = {
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve static pages
   */
  staticOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve pages that are static or rendered via server
   */
  hybridOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter is able to serve SSR pages
   */
  serverOutput?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * The adapter can emit static assets
   */
  assets?: AstroAssetsFeature;
};

export interface AstroAssetsFeature {
  supportKind?: SupportsKind;
  /**
   * Whether this adapter deploys files in an environment that is compatible with the library `sharp`
   */
  isSharpCompatible?: boolean;
  /**
   * Whether this adapter deploys files in an environment that is compatible with the library `squoosh`
   */
  isSquooshCompatible?: boolean;
}

```

The properties are:

* __name__: A unique name for your adapter, used for logging.
* __serverEntrypoint__: The entrypoint for server-side rendering.
* __exports__: An array of named exports when used in conjunction with `createExports` (explained below).
* __adapterFeatures__: An object that enables specific features that must be supported by the adapter. 
  These features will change the built output, and the adapter must implement the proper logic to handle the different output. 
* __supportedAstroFeatures__: A map of Astro built-in features. This allows Astro to determine which features an adapter is unable or unwilling to support so appropriate error messages can be provided.

### Server Entrypoint

Astro's adapter API attempts to work with any type of host, and gives a flexible way to conform to the host APIs.

#### Exports

Some serverless hosts expect you to export a function, such as `handler`:

```js
export function handler(event, context) {
  // ...
}
```

With the adapter API you achieve this by implementing `createExports` in your `serverEntrypoint`:

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';

export function createExports(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  const handler = (event, context) => {
    // ...
  };

  return { handler };
}
```

And then in your integration, where you call `setAdapter`, provide this name in `exports`:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          exports: ['handler'],
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

#### Start

Some hosts expect you to *start* the server yourselves, for example by listening to a port. For these types of hosts, the adapter API allows you to export a `start` function which will be called when the bundle script is run.

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';

export function start(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  addEventListener('fetch', event => {
    // ...
  });
}
```

#### `astro/app`

This module is used for rendering pages that have been prebuilt through `astro build`. Astro uses the standard [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) and [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) objects. Hosts that have a different API for request/response should convert to these types in their adapter.

```js
import { App } from 'astro/app';
import http from 'http';

export function start(manifest) {
  const app = new App(manifest);

  addEventListener('fetch', event => {
    event.respondWith(
      app.render(event.request)
    );
  });
}
```

The following methods are provided:

##### `app.render(request, routeData, locals)`

This method calls the Astro page that matches the request, renders it, and returns a Promise to a [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) object. This also works for API routes that do not render pages.

```js
const response = await app.render(request);
```

The method accepts a mandatory `request` argument, and two other optional arguments: [`routeData`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#routedata-type-reference) and [`locals`](/en/guides/middleware/#locals).

Provide a value for `routeData` if you already know the route to render. Doing so will bypass the internal call to [`app.match`](#appmatchrequest) to determine the route to render.

When  used, `locals` must be the third argument passed. You can pass `undefined` for `routeData` if you are not targeting a specific route.

The example below reads a header named `x-private-header`, attempts to parse it as an object and pass it to `locals`, which can then be passed to any [middleware function](/en/guides/middleware/).

```js
const privateHeader = request.headers.get("x-private-header");
let locals = {};
try {
    if (privateHeader) {
        locals = JSON.parse(privateHeader);
    }
} finally {
    const response = await app.render(request, undefined, locals);
}
```

##### `app.match(request)`

This method is used to determine if a request is matched by the Astro app's routing rules.

```js
if(app.match(request)) {
  const response = await app.render(request);
}
```

You can usually call `app.render(request)` without using `.match` because Astro handles 404s if you provide a `404.astro` file. Use `app.match(request)` if you want to handle 404s in a different way.

## Allow installation via `astro add`

[The `astro add` command](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-add) allows users to easily add integrations and adapters to their project. If you want _your_ adapter to be installable with this tool, **add `astro-adapter` to the `keywords` field in your `package.json`**:

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "keywords": ["astro-adapter"],
}
```

Once you [publish your adapter to npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-publish), running `astro add example` will install your package with any peer dependencies specified in your `package.json`. We will also instruct users to update their project config manually.


## Astro features

<Since v="3.0.0" />

Astro features are a way for an adapter to tell Astro whether they are able to support a feature, and also the adapter's level of support.  

When using these properties, Astro will:
- run specific validation; 
- emit contextual to the logs;

These operations are run based on the features supported or not supported, their level of support, and the configuration that the user uses.

The following configuration tells Astro that this adapter has experimental support for assets, but the adapter is not compatible with the built-in services Sharp and Squoosh:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-15}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          supportedAstroFeatures: {
            assets: {
              supportKind: "experimental",
              isSharpCompatible: false,
              isSquooshCompatible: false
            }
          }  
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Astro will log a **warning** to the terminal:

```
[@matthewp/my-adapter] The feature is experimental and subject to issues or changes.
```

and an error if the service used for assets is not compatible with the adapter:

```
[@matthewp/my-adapter] The currently selected adapter `@matthewp/my-adapter` is not compatible with the service "Sharp". Your project will NOT be able to build.
```

## Adapter features

A set of features that changes the output of the emitted files. When an adapter opts in to these features, they will get additional information inside specific hooks.

### `functionPerRoute`

This is a feature that is enabled when using SSR only. By default, Astro emits a single `entry.mjs` file, which is responsible for emitting the rendered page on each request.

When `functionPerRoute` is `true`, Astro will instead create a separate file for each route defined in the project.

Each file emitted will only render one page. The pages will be emitted inside a `dist/pages/` directory (or under a `/pages/` directory in the directory specified for [`outDir`](/en/reference/configuration-reference/#outdir)), and the emitted files will keep the same file paths of the `src/pages/` directory.

The files inside the `pages/` directory of the build will mirror the directory structure of your page files in `src/pages/`, for example:

<FileTree>
- dist/
    - pages/
        - blog/
            - entry.\_slug\_.astro.mjs
            - entry.about.astro.mjs
        - entry.index.astro.mjs
</FileTree>

Enable the feature by passing `true` to the adapter.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-11}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              functionPerRoute: true
          } 
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Then, consume the hook [`astro:build:ssr`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#astrobuildssr), which will give you an `entryPoints` object that maps a page route to the physical file emitted after the build.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={15-19}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              functionPerRoute: true
          } 
        });
      },

      'astro:build:ssr': ({ entryPoints }) => {
          for (const [route, entryFile] of entryPoints) {
              // do something with route and entryFile
          }
      }  
    },
  };
}
```

:::caution
The `entryFile` is of type `URL` and represents the physical path of the file in the file system. This means that the paths change based on the OS where the code runs. 
:::

#### Serverless environments

Setting `functionPerRoute: true` in a serverless environment creates a JavaScript file (handler) for each route. A handler might have different names based on your hosting platform: lambda, function, page, etc.

Each of these routes is subject to a [cold start](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/understanding-serverless-cold-start/) when the handler runs, which may cause some delay. This delay is influenced by different factors.

With `functionPerRoute: false`, there is only one single handler in charge of rendering all your routes. When this handler is first triggered, you will be subject to a cold start. Then, all other routes should function without delay. However, you will lose the benefit of code splitting that `functionPerRoute: true` provides.

:::note
It's important that you understand your hosting platform, and how it works, in order to choose the appropriate `functionPerRoute` configuration for your project.
:::

### `edgeMiddleware`

Defines whether any SSR middleware code will be bundled when built.
	
When enabled, this prevents middleware code from being bundled and imported by all pages during the build:

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={9-11}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              edgeMiddleware: true
          } 
        });
      },
    },
  };
}
```

Then, consume the hook [`astro:build:ssr`](/en/reference/integrations-reference/#astrobuildssr), which will give you a `middlewareEntryPoint`, an `URL` to the physical file on the file system.

```js title="my-adapter.mjs" ins={15-19}
export default function createIntegration() {
  return {
    name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:done': ({ setAdapter }) => {
        setAdapter({
          name: '@matthewp/my-adapter',
          serverEntrypoint: '@matthewp/my-adapter/server.js',
          adapterFeatures: {
              edgeMiddleware: true
          } 
        });
      },

      'astro:build:ssr': ({ middlewareEntryPoint }) => {
          // remember to check if this property exits, it will be `undefined` if the adapter doesn't opt in to the feature
          if (middlewareEntryPoint) {
             createEdgeMiddleware(middlewareEntryPoint)
          }
      }  
    },
  };
}

function createEdgeMiddleware(middlewareEntryPoint) {
    // emit a new physical file using your bundler
}
```
