src/content/docs/en/reference/errors/missing-sharp.mdx, before:

---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated from 'scripts/error-docgen.mjs'
# Do not make edits to it directly, they will be overwritten.
# Instead, change this file: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
# Translators, please remove this note and the <DontEditWarning/> component.

title: Could not find Sharp.
i18nReady: true
githubURL: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
---
import DontEditWarning from '~/components/DontEditWarning.astro'

<DontEditWarning />


> **MissingSharp**: Could not find Sharp. Please install Sharp (`sharp`) manually into your project or migrate to another image service.

## What went wrong?
Sharp is the default image service used for `astro:assets`. When using a [strict package manager](https://pnpm.io/pnpm-vs-npm#npms-flat-tree) like pnpm, Sharp must be installed manually into your project in order to use image processing.

If you are not using `astro:assets` for image processing, and do not wish to install Sharp, you can configure the following passthrough image service that does no processing:

```js
import { defineConfig, passthroughImageService } from "astro/config";
export default defineConfig({
 image: {
   service: passthroughImageService(),
 },
});
```

**See Also:**
-  [Default Image Service](/en/guides/images/#default-image-service)
-  [Image Component](/en/guides/images/#image--astroassets)
-  [Image Services API](/en/reference/image-service-reference/)

Commit message:

Add note about installing Sharp when using Bun install
Bun cannot currently install sharp properly, so installing Sharp using `npm` is currently necessary.

src/content/docs/en/reference/errors/missing-sharp.mdx, after:

---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated from 'scripts/error-docgen.mjs'
# Do not make edits to it directly, they will be overwritten.
# Instead, change this file: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
# Translators, please remove this note and the <DontEditWarning/> component.

title: Could not find Sharp.
i18nReady: true
githubURL: https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/src/core/errors/errors-data.ts
---
import DontEditWarning from '~/components/DontEditWarning.astro'

<DontEditWarning />


> **MissingSharp**: Could not find Sharp. Please install Sharp (`sharp`) manually into your project or migrate to another image service.

## What went wrong?
Sharp is the default image service used for `astro:assets`. When using a [strict package manager](https://pnpm.io/pnpm-vs-npm#npms-flat-tree) like pnpm, Sharp must be installed manually into your project in order to use image processing.

When using `bun install` to install your packages, you will have to manually install Sharp using `npm i sharp --no-save` until [this issue](https://github.com/lovell/sharp/issues/3779) is resolved.

If you are not using `astro:assets` for image processing, and do not wish to install Sharp, you can configure the following passthrough image service that does no processing:

```js
import { defineConfig, passthroughImageService } from "astro/config";
export default defineConfig({
 image: {
   service: passthroughImageService(),
 },
});
```

**See Also:**
-  [Default Image Service](/en/guides/images/#default-image-service)
-  [Image Component](/en/guides/images/#image--astroassets)
-  [Image Services API](/en/reference/image-service-reference/)
