src/content/docs/en/guides/deploy/microsoft-azure.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy your Astro Site to Microsoft Azure
description: How to deploy your Astro site to the web using Microsoft Azure.
type: deploy
i18nReady: true
---

[Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/) is a cloud platform from Microsoft. You can deploy your Astro site with Microsoft Azure’s [Static Web Apps](https://aka.ms/staticwebapps) service.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, you will need:

- An Azure account and a subscription key. You can create a [free Azure account here](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).
- Your app code pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com/).
- The [SWA Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

## How to deploy

1. Open your project in VS Code.

2. Open the Static Web Apps extension, sign in to Azure, and click the **+** button to create a new Static Web App. You will be prompted to designate which subscription key to use.

3. Follow the wizard started by the extension to give your app a name, choose a framework preset, and designate the app root (usually `/`) and built file location `/dist`. The wizard will run and will create a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/features/actions) in the `.github` folder of your repo. (This folder will be automatically created if it does not already exist.)

The GitHub Action will deploy your app (you can see its progress in your repo’s Actions tab on GitHub). When successfully completed, you can view your app at the address shown in the SWA Extension’s progress window by clicking the **Browse Website** button (this will appear after the GitHub Action has run).

Commit message:

Update microsoft-azure.mdx to expand description and add community links

src/content/docs/en/guides/deploy/microsoft-azure.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy your Astro Site to Microsoft Azure
description: How to deploy your Astro site to the web using Microsoft Azure.
type: deploy
i18nReady: true
---

[Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/) is a cloud platform from Microsoft. You can deploy your Astro site with Microsoft Azure’s [Static Web Apps](https://aka.ms/staticwebapps) service.

You can set up your Azure static web app (SWA) through the Azure Portal or via the [Static Web App Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

Azure static web apps can be deployed most easily with code stored in GitHub and deployed using GitHub Actions. However, an [Azure Pipelines Task](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/azure-static-web-app-v0?view=azure-pipelines) is available and Microsoft provides guides for other setups.

Astro is not listed in the built-in templates in Azure so you will need to select `custom`. The only setting you need to change from the default is the built file location which must be set to `/dist`.

## Deploying to SWA
This guide takes you through deploying your Astro site stored in GitHub using Visual Studio Code.

### Prerequisites
To follow this guide, you will need:

- An Azure account and a subscription key. You can create a [free Azure account here](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).
- Your app code pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com/).
- The [SWA Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps) in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

### How to deploy

1. Open your project in VS Code.

2. Open the Static Web Apps extension, sign in to Azure, and click the **+** button to create a new Static Web App. You will be prompted to designate which subscription key to use.

3. Follow the wizard started by the extension to give your app a name, choose a framework preset, and designate the app root (usually `/`) and built file location `/dist`. The wizard will run and will create a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/features/actions) in the `.github` folder of your repo. (This folder will be automatically created if it does not already exist.)

The GitHub Action will deploy your app (you can see its progress in your repo’s Actions tab on GitHub). When successfully completed, you can view your app at the address shown in the SWA Extension’s progress window by clicking the **Browse Website** button (this will appear after the GitHub Action has run).

## Known Issues
The GitHub action yaml that is created for you assumes the use of node 14. This means the Astro build fails. To resolve this update your projects package.json file with this snippet.

```
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=18.0.0"
  },
```

## Official Resources

- Microsoft [Azure Static Web Apps documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/).

## Community Resources 

- [Deploying an Astro Website to Azure Static Web Apps](https://www.blueboxes.co.uk/deploying-an-astro-website-to-azure-static-web-apps) by John Kilmister
